<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8" ?>

<!DOCTYPE TEI.2 SYSTEM "http://www.gutenberg.org/tei/marcello/0.4/dtd/pgtei.dtd" [

<!ENTITY u5  "http://www.tei-c.org/Lite/">

]>

<TEI.2 lang="en">
<teiHeader>
  <fileDesc>
    <titleStmt>
      <title>His Glorious Appearing</title>
      <title type="sub">An Exposition of Matthew Twenty-Four</title>
      <author><name reg="White, James Springer">James Springer White</name></author>
    </titleStmt>
    <editionStmt>
      <edition n="11">Edition 11</edition>
    </editionStmt>
    <publicationStmt>
      <publisher>Project Gutenberg</publisher>
      <date>June 15, 2017</date>
      <idno type="etext-no">54914</idno>
      <availability>
        <p>This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
        most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
        whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
        the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
        www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
        to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.</p>
      </availability>
    </publicationStmt>
    <sourceDesc>
      <bibl>
        Created electronically.
      </bibl>
    </sourceDesc>
  </fileDesc>
  <encodingDesc>
  </encodingDesc>
  <profileDesc>
    <langUsage>
      <language id="en"></language>
    </langUsage>
  </profileDesc>
  <revisionDesc>
    <change>
      <date value="2017-06-15">June 15, 2017</date>
      <respStmt>
        <name>
            Produced by Richard Hulse, Bryan Ness, David King, and the Online
            Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net.
            (This file was produced from images generously made
            available by The Internet Archive/American Libraries.)
        </name>
      </respStmt>
      <item>Project Gutenberg TEI edition 1</item>
    </change>
  </revisionDesc>
</teiHeader>

<pgExtensions>
  <pgStyleSheet>
    .boxed           { x-class: boxed }
    .shaded          { x-class: shaded }
    .rules           { x-class: rules; rules: all }
    .indent          { margin-left: 2 }
    .bold            { font-weight: bold }
    .italic          { font-style: italic }
    .smallcaps       { font-variant: small-caps }
  </pgStyleSheet>

  <pgCharMap formats="txt.iso-8859-1">
    <char id="U0x2014">
      <charName>mdash</charName>
      <desc>EM DASH</desc>
      <mapping>--</mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2003">
      <charName>emsp</charName>
      <desc>EM SPACE</desc>
      <mapping>  </mapping>
    </char>
    <char id="U0x2026">
      <charName>hellip</charName>
      <desc>HORIZONTAL ELLIPSIS</desc>
      <mapping>...</mapping>
    </char>
  </pgCharMap>
</pgExtensions>

<text lang="en">
  <front>
    <div>
      <divGen type="pgheader" />
    </div>
    <div>
      <divGen type="encodingDesc" />
    </div>

    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <p rend="font-size: xx-large; text-align: center">His Glorious Appearing</p>
      <p rend="font-size: large; text-align: center">An Exposition of Matthew Twenty-Four</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">By</p>
      <p rend="font-size: x-large; text-align: center">James Springer White</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Revised and Illustrated</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center"><q>What shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?</q>&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Disciples</hi>.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center"><q>When ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the doors.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='smallcaps'>Jesus</hi>.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Eleventh Edition.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Review and Herald Publishing Co.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">Battle Creek, Mich.</p>
      <p rend="text-align: center">1895</p>
    </div>
    <div rend="page-break-before: always">
      <head>Contents</head>
      <divGen type="toc" />
    </div>

  </front>
<body>

<div>
  <p rend='text-align: center'>
    <figure url='images/cover.jpg' rend='width: 60%'>
      <figDesc>Book Cover</figDesc>
    </figure>
  </p>
</div>

<pb n='002'/><anchor id='Pg002'/>

<div>
<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/frontis.png' rend='width: 50%'>
    <head>The Light of the World</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>
</div>

<pb n='005'/><anchor id='Pg005'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Introductory.</head>

<p>
<q>Surely the Lord God will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret
unto his servants the prophets.</q> Amos 3:7.
</p>

<p>
No truth of inspiration can be more clearly demonstrated
than that God reveals his designs to his prophets, that
men and nations may be prepared for their accomplishment.
Before visiting with judgments, God has uniformly
sent forth warnings sufficient to enable the believing to escape
his wrath, and to condemn those who have not heeded the
warning. This was the case before the flood. The wickedness
of the world had become very great. Every imagination
of the thoughts of the hearts of men was only evil.
It would seem that they had forfeited all claims for consideration.
Violence and corruption filled the earth, and
the only way to eradicate evil was to destroy it with its
workers. But before doing so, the world must be warned of
the impending doom; and there was found one man who
would engage in the work. Noah had faith in God, and
preached for one hundred and twenty years the message of
<pb n='006'/><anchor id='Pg006'/>
warning and salvation. His work also testified with his
words.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet,
moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the
which he condemned the world.</q> Heb. 11:7.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
At a later period, when the nations had again become
sunken in idolatry and crime, and the destruction of wicked
Sodom and Gomorrah was determined, the Lord said,&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do; seeing that
Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the
nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?</q> Gen. 18:17, 18.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
And due notice was given to righteous Lot, who, with
his daughters, was preserved; and none, even in that guilty
city, perished without due warning. Lot evidently warned
the people; and in thus communing with them, was <q>vexed
with the filthy conversation of the wicked.</q> 2 Peter 2:7,
8. His righteous life had been a rebuke to them; and
we have every reason to believe that the holy example of
Abraham in his worship of the true God was known to
them. He had at one time been their saviour, and rescued
their captives and spoil from the victorious enemy who was
carrying them away. But when Lot warned his friends of
the approaching doom, <q>he seemed as one that mocked.</q>
Gen. 19:14. They, like the antediluvians, persisted in sin,
and drank of the wrath of God.
</p>

<p>
At a subsequent time the sins of Nineveh rose to
heaven, and Jonah was sent to bear to that proud capital the
startling message, <q>Yet forty days and Nineveh shall be
destroyed.</q> The consciences of those sinners told them the
message was true; and from the least of them to the
greatest they humbled themselves, and the overhanging
judgment was averted.
</p>

<pb n='007'/><anchor id='Pg007'/>

<p>
Before Christ commenced his earthly mission, John the
Baptist was sent as the voice of one crying in the wilderness,
<q>Prepare ye the way of the Lord.</q> By this means
the expectation of the people was raised, and doubtless
many were through it led to accept of salvation, while
the generation at large was condemned for rejecting the
light.
</p>

<p>
Our Saviour in his time saw the destruction of Jerusalem
just in the future of that generation, and faithfully warned
the people, foretelling signs by which it might be known
when the desolation thereof was nigh. Luke 21:21. Such
is the testimony of inspiration respecting the dealings of
God with his people in past ages.
</p>

<p>
All who accept the Bible as the inspired word of God
acknowledge that he has been very faithful in warning
people in past ages of impending judgments and other events
which affected their eternal welfare. Such having been
the divine plan in relation to past events, we would certainly
be justified in anticipating such warnings of Christ's
second coming as would comport with the importance of
the event. But when we come to regard the future, and
especially our own immediate future, the incredulity of
very many is at once aroused.
</p>

<p>
But what are the facts in the case? Can anything be
learned from the Bible relative to the time of the second
advent? This is a grave inquiry; and, from the very nature
of the subject, is worthy of close investigation, and a
candid answer. It is a matter of painful regret that many,
under the influence of popular prejudice, have decided that
the period of the second advent is a secret, hidden with
the Lord. While these can scarcely be reached with this
subject, as long as they remain under the influence of those
who denounce all investigation of it as prying into the
<pb n='009'/><anchor id='Pg009'/>
secrets of the Almighty, there is still, we believe, a larger
class who wait for evidence before deciding.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_008.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Christ Weeping Over Jerusalem</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
We accept the Bible as a revelation from heaven.
What God has revealed in that book, let no man call a
mystery, or a secret of the Almighty. <q>The secret things
belong unto the Lord our God; but those things which
are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever.</q>
Deut. 29:29. If the sacred Scriptures, in a most clear
and harmonious manner, point out the signs of the approach
of that great event, and if there is evidence that <q>it is near,
even at the doors,</q> the subject at once assumes great importance.
</p>

<p>
When the disciples inquired, <q>What shall be the sign of
thy coming, and of the end of the world?</q> Jesus did not
reprove them for inquiring into this matter, nor tell them
that it was purposely hidden from all men; but he answered
their question in the most definite manner.
</p>

<p>
The simple fact that the Lord mentions signs of his
second advent, is the best proof possible that his people
were not to remain ignorant of the relative nearness of the
event. Add to this his injunctions to watchfulness, and the
blessings which he pronounces upon those who are awake
and watching at his coming, and it becomes a certainty
that he would not leave his people ignorant of the proximity
of that event. Paul also says that <q>unto <emph>them that look for
him</emph> shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.</q>
Heb. 9:28. And that a crown of righteousness
will be given <q>unto all them also that love his appearing.</q>
2 Tim. 4:8.
</p>

<p>
With these assurances we may look for plain and emphatic
tokens of the Saviour's second coming.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='011'/><anchor id='Pg011'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Christ's Prophecy.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_010.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Jesus on the Mount of Olives</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Probably no other chapter of the Bible speaks more
fully, and more definitely, upon the subject of the second
advent, than Matthew 24, in Christ's own words. We invite
the attention of the candid reader to a brief explanation
of the entire chapter.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse 1</hi>: <q>And Jesus went out, and departed from the temple; and
his disciples came to him for to show him the buildings of the temple.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Jesus had been addressing the multitude, in the presence
of his disciples. He had reproved the scribes and the
Pharisees for their sins, and had declared, in the previous
chapter, the doom of the Jews, their city, and their temple.
The disciples supposed that the temple would stand forever,
and they called the attention of Christ to its magnificence
and strength, and to the great stones that entered
into the structure. On this point the historian of those
times, Josephus, says: <q>Now the temple was built of
stones that were white and strong, and each of their lengths
was twenty-five cubits, their height was eight, and their
breadth about twelve.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'><q>Antiquities,</q> book xv, chap. xi.</hi>
If we compute a cubit at twenty inches, we shall be able to
gain some idea of the size and <q>manner</q> of these stones.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse 2</hi>: <q>And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things?
Verily I say unto you, There shall not be left here one stone upon another,
that shall not be thrown down.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse 3</hi>: <q>And as he sat upon the mount of Olives, the disciples
came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be?
and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This statement from the Master could not but deeply
interest the disciples. And it matters not whether they
supposed that the destruction of the temple, the coming of
<pb n='012'/><anchor id='Pg012'/>
Christ, and the end of the age, would all occur at the same
time, or at different periods, since Christ, in his answer in
this chapter, has distinctly spoken of each separately, and
has given each its place in the prophetic history of events.
If it were their impression that the overthrow of the temple
and the end of the world would occur at the same time, it
by no means proves that this would be the case. As the
Scriptures show, up to the time of the out-pouring of the
Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost, their ideas upon many
points were crude and inaccurate. Take as proof of this the
parable which the Lord spake when he was going into
Jerusalem. Luke 19. They thought that the kingdom of
God should immediately appear. To correct this impression,
the parable of the nobleman was spoken. If they
understood the parable at the time when it was spoken, it
did not fully eradicate the impression from their minds,
as is proved by what they did when they entered Jerusalem.
We cannot believe that they would have hailed
him as the Son of David, and rejoiced before him as a King
in his triumph, if they had realized that he was going into
the city to be condemned and crucified as a malefactor.
Palm branches and shouts of triumph did not attend the
steps of the lowly and the condemned.
</p>

<p>
John admits for himself and Peter, after they had seen
the empty sepulcher, that <q>they knew not the scripture,
that he must rise again from the dead.</q> John 20:9.
</p>

<p>
Again, after his resurrection, Jesus reproved two of his
disciples, who, though they had trusted that he would redeem
Israel, were then sad and disheartened. They did
not then understand that Christ ought <q>to have suffered
these things, and to enter into his glory.</q> The suffering
part was still a mystery to them. And some of the apostles
were so slow to realize that which he had spoken to them,
<pb n='013'/><anchor id='Pg013'/>
that they could hardly be persuaded that he was indeed
risen from the dead. And after he had been with them
full forty days, speaking to them of the things pertaining
to the kingdom, they did not yet understand <q>the times
and the seasons,</q> and therefore asked him, <q>Lord, wilt
thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?</q>
</p>

<p>
However the matter may have been entertained in the
minds of the disciples, it is evident that their query consisted
of two distinct questions in the mind of the Saviour.
These questions relate, first, to the destruction of Jerusalem;
and, second, to Christ's second coming at the end of the
world or age. They were distinctly answered by our
Lord; not, however, before the promiscuous multitude;
but on the occasion of a private interview with his disciples.
Christ here speaks to his disciples; hence his
words in this prophetic discourse are addressed especially
to the church.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses 4, 5</hi>: <q>And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take
heed that no man deceive you. For many shall come in my name, saying,
I am Christ, and shall deceive many.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Jesus knew the hearts of men, and that many impostors
would arise, and deceive multitudes. He here warns his
disciples, and guards them against the deceptions of corrupt
and ambitious men. Such was the general expectation
of the appearance of the Messiah among the Jews, that
many would set up the claim that they were the Christ, to
carry out selfish purposes, or to gain notoriety, and the
credulous people would be easily led into the deception,
and then be destroyed for sedition. We are informed that
in the days succeeding those of Christ, impostors arose in
great numbers. Josephus tells us of an Egyptian false
prophet who led 30,000 men into the desert to show them
<pb n='015'/><anchor id='Pg015'/>
signs, and then brought them to Jerusalem as if to attack
the city. He caused great pillage and destruction in
Judea, but in the time of battle, ran away, leaving his followers
to the exasperated Romans.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'><q>Wars of the Jews,</q>
book ii, chap. xiii.</hi>
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_014.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Ancient Jerusalem</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
In the former part of the second century Cazibee set
himself at the head of the Jewish nation and proclaimed
himself their long-expected Messiah. To facilitate the
success of his bold enterprise he changed his name to
that of Barchocheba, alluding to the Star foretold by
Balaam. Adrian raised an army, and sent it against him.
He retired into a town called Bither, where he was besieged.
Barchocheba was killed in the siege, the city was taken,
and a dreadful havoc succeeded. The Jews themselves
allow that, during this short war against the Romans in defense
of this false Messiah, they lost five or six hundred
thousand souls.&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Buck's Dictionary.</hi>
</p>

<p>
Dr. A. Clarke says, on the authority of Josephus, that
<q>a few years afterward, under the reign of Nero, while
Felix was procurator of Judea, impostors of this stamp
were so frequent that some were taken and killed almost
every day.</q> And at intervals since then the Jews who
are all the time expecting the appearance of the Messiah
have been repeatedly the victims of cruel deception.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse 6</hi>: <q>And ye shall hear of wars and rumors of wars. See
that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass, but the
end is not yet.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
It is proper that we should consider what is meant by the
term <q>the end,</q> used in this verse; in verse 14, <q>then
shall the end come;</q> and in verse 3, <q>the sign of thy
coming, and the end of the world.</q> In the first place, it
may be unhesitatingly claimed that the term does not refer
to the end of the Jewish dispensation, which terminated at
<pb n='016'/><anchor id='Pg016'/>
the crucifixion, nor to the destruction of Jerusalem, which
occurred about forty years later. Because, first, Jesus
treated the question concerning the destruction of the
temple and that referring to his coming and the end of the
world as relating to two distinct events, widely separated in
time. Second, the signs which were to be premonitory of
the end did not transpire before the destruction of the temple.
Third, the second coming of Christ, the close of probation,
the judgment, the resurrection, and the end of sin,
death, and mortality, are frequently and prominently associated
together in the Bible as constituting the most important
epoch in human history. To limit this thrilling discourse
to the local and long past destruction of Jerusalem
would be to rob it of its force and grandeur. Not only
would the twenty-fourth of Matthew which we are now
studying be stultified, but very much of the life and power
of the Scriptures would be sacrificed by such a course.
</p>

<p>
As to the meaning of the phrase, <q>the end of the world,</q>
it may consistently be translated <q>the end of the age,</q> and
in the margin of the Revised Bible it is rendered <q>the consummation
of the age.</q> For an inspired definition of the
term, let the reader turn to Matt. 13:38-40 and its context,
where the same words are used and repeated in the original:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The tares are the children of the wicked one; the enemy that
sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the world; and
the reapers are the angels. As therefore the tares are gathered and
burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this world. The Son of
man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom
all things that offend, and them that do iniquity; and shall cast
them into a furnace of fire: there shall be weeping and gnashing of
teeth.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
From Rev. 14:14-16 we learn that the harvest of the
earth and the second coming of Christ are identical.
<pb n='017'/><anchor id='Pg017'/>
So that by no possible means could it be established that
the <q>end of the world</q> means the destruction of Jerusalem.
Further evidence is found in Matt. 28:20 where the
same expression, both in the original and in the translation,
is used: <q>Lo I am with you alway, even unto the end of
the world.</q> But no one would have the audacity to claim
that this promise expired in <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 70, as it must have
done if those questions of the disciples and the subsequent
discourse of Christ related only to the impending doom of
the temple and city.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 7, 8: <q>For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom
against kingdom; and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and
earthquakes, in divers places. All these are the beginning of sorrows.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Wars, famines, pestilences, and earthquakes have occurred
all along since these words were spoken. Therefore,
these, as they have ever existed, cannot be regarded
as the especial signs of the end. It may be claimed, however,
with a good degree of consistency, that the Scriptures
teach that these calamities would abound in the last days to
such an extent as to constitute a sign of the approaching
Judgment. We wish to keep the important fact distinctly
before the mind, that the sacred Scriptures do teach when
men may not, and when they may, look for the second
appearing of Christ.
</p>

<p>
The sacred writers have so uniformly associated such
judgments as war, famine, pestilence, and earthquake, with
the last Judgment, that the disciples would be in danger of
concluding that the end would immediately follow the first
appearance of these calamities; hence the caution given:
<q>These things must come to pass, but the end is not yet.</q>
Here the disciples were clearly taught that they should
not expect the end in their day. This fact is worthy of the
<pb n='018'/><anchor id='Pg018'/>
candid attention of those who object to the proclamation
of the second advent of Christ in the form of an especial
message. These sometimes assert that it was right for the
disciples to look for Christ in their day, and that it has been
scriptural and right for all Christians to look for the second
appearing of Christ in their time, from the days of the
chosen twelve to the present time. And they decide that
no more can be learned and believed upon this subject in
our time than by the Christians of past generations, and
that the public mind should not now be moved upon this
great question, any more than in all past time since the
first advent of Christ.
</p>

<p>
We have seen that this position is incorrect so far as
the early disciples were concerned. They are directed to
the distant future as the time when their Lord should come.
They are assured that they need not be troubled at hearing
of wars and rumors of wars; <q>for all these things must
come to pass, but the end is not yet.</q> Our Lord then
guides the minds of his disciples, as we shall see in the
examination of this chapter, down over the time of the great
apostasy, and the long period of the rule of papal Rome,
before mentioning a sign of his second advent. He does
not intimate that his people during these long periods may
expect the end. No, not once. But when he comes to a
later time, the Lord names signs in the sun, in the moon,
and in the stars, and adds: <q>When ye shall see all these
things, know that it is near, even at the doors.</q>
</p>

<p>
Mark this: Our Lord does not mention wars, famines,
pestilences, and earthquakes as signs of his second advent;
but rather as events of common occurrence all the way
through the Christian age, which must exist before the
end. And history attests the fact that these calamities have
<pb n='019'/><anchor id='Pg019'/>
covered at least seventeen centuries. The following is from
a work of Noah Webster, LL. D., published in 1799:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>By famine and sword, 580,000 Jews were destroyed between
<hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 96 and <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 180.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In Antioch, from <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 96 to <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 180, earthquakes destroyed
13 cities and over 100,000 lives.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In Rome, <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 169, pestilence destroyed 10,000 daily.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In Rome, <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 187, pestilence appeared and continued three
years.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In London, <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 310, by famine, 40,000 died.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 446, September 17, an earthquake shook down the walls
of Constantinople, and 57 towers fell.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In Rome, <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 539, in one district 50,000 died.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In Antioch, <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 588, an earthquake killed 60,000.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 542, the plague killed 10,000 in one day in Turkey.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 679, a severe famine in England, three years.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 717, in Constantinople, 300,000 died of plague.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1005, earthquakes three months, followed by pestilence,
by which it is said one third of the human race died.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1077, in Constantinople, so many died by plague and
famine the living could not bury them.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1124, in Italy, there was such famine that the dead lay in
the streets not buried; and in England one third of the people died of
plague.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1294, in England thousands died of famine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1346, in London, 50,000 died of plague and famine, and
were buried in one grave-yard; in Norwich, 50,000; in Venice, 100,000;
in Florence, 100,000; in Eastern nations, 20,000,000. It was called
the black death.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1352, in China, 900,000 died of famine.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1427 in Dantzic, 80,000 died of plague.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1570, in Moscow, 200,000 died of plague.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1572, in Lyons, 50,000 died of plague.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1625, in London, 35,000 died of plague.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1656, in Naples, 300,000 died of plague.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1665, in London, 68,000 died of plague.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>In <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1755, an earthquake destroyed the city of Lisbon, killing
50,000. In Mitylene, and the Archipelago, it shook down 2000 houses.
It shook all the Spanish coast. The plague followed, which destroyed
150,000 persons in Constantinople.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='021'/><anchor id='Pg021'/>

<p>
Doubtless the figures in the above list should in some
instances be corrected to correspond with facts. But, taken
as a whole, they do not nearly represent the ravages of
death in their enormity. For instance, the Encyclopedia
Britannica states that Hecker estimates the celebrated
<q>black death</q> of the fourteenth century in the different
epidemics, to have swept away one fourth of the inhabitants
of Europe, or 25,000,000 people!
</p>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Persecution And False Prophets.</head>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_020.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <head>Martyrdom of Huss</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 9, 10: <q>Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted,
and shall kill you; and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's
sake. And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one another,
and shall hate one another.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Here is a brief description of the afflictions and martyrdom
of the church of Christ. Thousands of the faithful
followers of Jesus were most cruelly put to death by pagan
Rome; yet the prophecy doubtless applies more particularly
to the long period of papal persecutions, in which not less
than fifty millions of Christians were put to death in the
most cruel manner that wicked men and demons could devise.
In these verses we are brought down over the long
period of the martyrdom of the church of Jesus Christ, to
near the present generation. These verses being parallel
with verses 21 and 22, this subject will be noticed again.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse</hi> 11: <q>And many false prophets shall rise, and shall deceive
many.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
A true prophet is one who speaks for God. The spirit
of prophecy is the testimony of Jesus. Rev. 19:10. It is
Jesus Christ speaking through human lips or pen to his people.
<hi rend='italic'>Pseudo</hi>, or false prophets, speak through the agency
of wicked spirits and the power of Satan. Their work is
to deceive. And while this is true of those who are under
<pb n='023'/><anchor id='Pg023'/>
the direct inspiration of superior beings, good or evil, it is
true in a more restricted sense that consecrated teachers of
divine truth may be regarded as God's prophets; and
teachers of error may properly be called false prophets.
True and false prophets may be known.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_022.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <head>The Crucifixion</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The prophets of God are teachers of purity, reprovers
of sin, and faithful in warning the people of coming dangers.
The duties of those whom God calls to speak in
his great name are clearly expressed by the sacred writers.
We here quote from three of them:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Isa.</hi> 58:1: <q>Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet,
and show my people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their
sins.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Joel</hi> 2:1: <q>Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm
in my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble;
for the day of the Lord cometh, for it is nigh at hand.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>2 Tim.</hi> 4:1, 2: <q>I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord
Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing
and his kingdom; preach the word; be instant in season, out of season;
reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
False prophets do not reprove the people for their sins,
and do not warn them of coming danger; but they proclaim
peace to the sinner. Their teachings lead from God and
his word, and are such as please the unconverted mind.
The inspired writers have also spoken definitely of the testimony
and work of false prophets. We here give several
for example:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Eze.</hi> 13:9, 10: <q>And mine hand shall be upon the prophets that
see vanity, and that divine lies. They shall not be in the assembly
of my people, neither shall they be written in the writing of the house
of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of Israel; and ye shall
know that I am the Lord God. Because, even because they have
seduced my people, saying, Peace; and there was no peace; and one
built up a wall, and lo, others daubed it with untempered mortar.</q>
</p>

<pb n='024'/><anchor id='Pg024'/>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Jer.</hi> 6:13, 14: <q>For from the least of them even unto the greatest
of them, every one is given to covetousness; and from the prophet
even unto the priest, every one dealeth falsely. They have healed
also the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, Peace,
peace, when there is no peace.</q>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Jer.</hi> 14:13, 14: <q>Then said I, Ah, Lord God! behold, the prophets
say unto them, Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have
famine; but I will give you assured peace in this place. Then the Lord
said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name. I sent them
not, neither spake unto them.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
After stating the duty of the faithful servant of God
to preach the word, to reprove, to rebuke, and exhort with
all long-suffering and doctrine, the apostle says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine;
but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having
itching ears; and they shall turn away their ears from the truth,
and shall be turned unto fables.</q> 2 Tim. 4:3, 4.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
That time has now fully come. The people choose
pleasing fables, which do not disturb them in their sins,
rather than the reproving, searching declarations of the
word of God. They love to be deceived by the teachings
of false prophets, and <q>say to the seers, See not; and to
the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto
us smooth things, prophesy deceits.</q> Isa. 30:10.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Shall I not visit for these things? saith the Lord. Shall not my
soul be avenged on such a nation as this? A wonderful and horrible
thing is committed in the land; the prophets prophesy falsely, and the
priests bear rule by their means; and my people love to have it so; and
what will ye do in the end thereof?</q> Jer. 5:29-31.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The ears of the people are filled with the pleasing fables
of the world's conversion, a good time coming, and that
we are just entering the golden age. The threatenings of
God's word on the proud, the haughty, the vain, the rich,
the sinners in Zion, and those out of Zion, are kept back by
<pb n='025'/><anchor id='Pg025'/>
the false teachers of these times. Many of them even dare
to teach that the moral code of the ten commandments is
abrogated. And as the result of such a course, and of such
teaching, we see in the professed church of Jesus Christ,
that
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Iniquity Abounds.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse</hi> 12: <q>And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many
shall wax cold.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
It is evident that both the abounding of iniquity and the
waxing cold of the love of many, are fulfilled in the professed
church of Jesus Christ. Men must first experience
the love of God and of heavenly things before that love
can grow cold. Hence, common, unconverted sinners are
not here referred to as apostatizing. And, again, the prevalence
of iniquity in the unconverted world alone, would
stimulate the church to greater diligence, and more godliness,
instead of being a cause of apostasy. Hence, the
iniquity here mentioned is in the very heart of the professed
church, diffusing its chilling influence through the whole
body. As the result, the love of many has grown cold.
With this, agree the words of the apostle:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.
For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud,
blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without
natural affection, truce-breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce,
despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers
of pleasures more than lovers of God; having a form of godliness,
but denying the power thereof; from such turn away.</q> 2 Tim. 3:1-5.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Here is a catalogue of eighteen sins, all resting upon
those having a form of godliness. These are not infidels
and common worldly sinners, for they have not a form of
godliness; but they are men and women professing to be
<pb n='027'/><anchor id='Pg027'/>
followers of Jesus Christ. And although they make a
profession of piety as high as heaven, these very sins lie at
their doors. And by reason of their example, and their
chilling influence, many are led from the humble path to
heaven, and their love waxes cold.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_026.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <head>The Ascension</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The End.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse</hi> 13: <q>But he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall
be saved.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
As before noted, the word <emph>end</emph>, whenever used in this
chapter, refers to the end of the age, and to nothing else.
It is the end associated in the New Testament with the
second appearing of Jesus Christ. If it be urged that the
word <q>end</q> has reference to the close of mortal life, then
we reply that the disciples did not ask their Lord (see verse
3) when they should die; but <q>what shall be the sign of
thy coming, and of the end of the world?</q> Neither does
the Lord speak of death, when he says (see verse 6), <q>But
the end is not yet.</q> And it would be strange indeed to
suppose that the word <q>end</q> (verse 14) meant death. If
any think such a position admissible, let them read it into
the text, as follows: And this gospel of the kingdom
shall be preached in all the world, for a witness unto all
nations, and then shall death come. Absurdity!
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse</hi> 14: <q>And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached
In all the world for a witness unto all nations, and then shall the end
come.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This is the first sign of the end given by our Lord in
answer to the question, <q>What shall be the sign of thy
coming, and of the end of the world?</q>
</p>

<p>
But it is robbed of its distinct power by that interpretation,
sometimes given, by which it is assumed that all men
will receive the gospel and be converted, and that then
<pb n='028'/><anchor id='Pg028'/>
instead of the end, there will ensue a thousand years in
which all shall know the Lord. After this long period
of peace and safety, the end will come. How much is
assumed on this text will appear when we consider that the
text does not say that every individual will even hear this
gospel of the kingdom. It does not state that any one
will be converted and made holy by it. And we find it far
from intimating that the world will be converted and remain
so one thousand years. We have no reason to conclude
that greater measure of success is implied in this text than
that which has always attended the preaching of the gospel.
While a few have believed and received it, the great mass
of men have passed it by unheedingly. The text simply
states: First, <q>And this gospel of the kingdom shall be
preached in all the world;</q> second, <q>For a witness unto
all nations;</q> third, <q>And <emph>then</emph> [not one thousand years
later, but <hi rend='smallcaps'>then</hi>] shall the end come.</q>
</p>

<p>
But to what does the term <q>gospel of the kingdom</q>
refer? The query sometimes rises as to whether the gospel
in the common acceptation of the word, or a gospel peculiarly
related to the second coming of Christ is here
meant. No such distinction is to be drawn. There neither
is, has been, nor will be more than one gospel. <q>But
though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other
gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto
you, let him be accursed.</q> Gal. 1:8.
</p>

<p>
The gospel, then, in this instance, is the same as Paul
preached, which was the <q>power of God unto salvation to
every one that believeth.</q> But in Rev. 14:6 and 7 we
read:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the
everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to
every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people, saying with a loud
<pb n='029'/><anchor id='Pg029'/>
voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is
come; and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and
the fountain of waters.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The gospel is here called the <q>everlasting gospel,</q>
and must necessarily be referred to the gospel of Christ.
In connection with the preaching of that gospel, was the
proclamation that the judgment hour had come. Not that
this message was appended to the gospel, but the angel who
had the everlasting gospel to preach said, <q>Fear God ...
for the hour of his judgment is come.</q>
</p>

<p>
The gospel of Jesus Christ embraces all truth relating
to salvation. The warnings, counsel, invitations, promises,
precepts, prophecies, or whatever the Lord would have the
people hear,&mdash;the gospel embraces them all. In the days
of Noah, the gospel included repentance, faith, obedience,
with the promises of grace and mercy; it also included the
warning of the impending judgment. And the only way to
escape that judgment was through the gospel. So here in
Revelation we have the gospel with all it implies, including
the message of Christ's second coming and kingdom and
the judgment. Closely associated with this message are
two others as given in Rev. 14:8-12. The first is merged
into these. Then immediately following their proclamation
we have the following scene:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And I looked and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud
one sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown,
and in his hand a sharp sickle.... And he that sat on the cloud thrust
in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.</q> Rev. 14:14-16.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
In Rev. 14:6-16, then, we learn what is the meaning
of the term <q>gospel of the kingdom.</q> It is <emph>the</emph> gospel,
and it embraces the admonitions and instructions relative
to the second coming of Christ. And now that we have
reached that time, the complete gospel embraces the good
<pb n='030'/><anchor id='Pg030'/>
news of the coming kingdom with appropriate warnings
and teachings. Our Saviour says it <q>shall be preached
in all the world for a witness unto all nations.</q> The Revelator
says the message is to be preached <q>to every nation,
kindred, tongue, and people.</q> When this shall be done,
the end will come.
</p>

<p>
The world-wide proclamation of the soon coming of
Christ was inaugurated about 1832. Since that time, the
work of extending its warning voice has gone on. A most
remarkable feature of this movement is the fact that in
different countries individuals were moved upon, almost
simultaneously, to study the prophecies and proclaim the
nearness of the end, although they knew nothing of what
was being done by others. In the United States and Canada,
in Great Britain, Norway, Sweden, Germany, and in Asia,
a profound interest in this subject was created, and people
were led to expect the early appearance of Jesus. Since
that time clearer light has appeared in connection with
the other messages of Revelation 14, and still the work is
onward. Wherever the light of the Bible has penetrated,
the good news of the coming Saviour is now going. Not
only so, but messengers bearing this gracious warning are
rapidly finding their way into the dark portions of the earth.
Evidence of its extent and progress might be expressed
in facts and figures, but the rapid development of the
work would soon leave these in the rear. Let it suffice to
say that at present the everlasting gospel is being preached
and published in all the leading languages and countries of
the world. The work has encircled the globe. It is rapidly
reaching every nation. We now wait for the approaching
end; for when the purpose of God in the proclamation
of the coming reign of Christ shall be fully accomplished,
then the end will come.
</p>

<pb n='031'/><anchor id='Pg031'/>

<p>
Thus far in this discourse Jesus has passed over the
entire Christian dispensation. Beginning with a warning
against the deceptions that were to succeed his own times,
he next describes wars and disasters, persecutions, apostasy,
the perils of the last days, and closes with a distinct
sign of the end.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>When Shall These Things Be?</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 15-20: <q>When ye, therefore, shall see the abomination of
desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place
(whoso readeth, let him understand); then let them which be in Judea
flee into the mountains; let him which is on the housetop not come
down to take anything out of his house; neither let him which is in
the field return back to take his clothes. And woe unto them that are
with child, and to them that give suck in those days! But pray ye
that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath day.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Our Lord having in verses 5-14, passed over the important
events in the Christian age down to the end, goes back and
introduces in verse 15 the destruction of Jerusalem, in answer
to the inquiry, <q>When shall these things be?</q> Luke's
version of this language is, <q>When ye shall see Jerusalem
encompassed with armies, then know that the desolation
thereof is nigh.</q> Luke 21:20. By this we know that
the term <q>abomination of desolation</q> refers to the Roman
army. This desolating power is spoken of by Daniel as
follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city
and the sanctuary; and the end thereof shall be with a flood, and unto
the end of the war desolations are determined.... And for the over-spreading
of abominations he shall make it desolate, even until the consummation,
and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate.</q>
Margin, <q>desolator.</q> Dan. 9:26, 27.
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='032'/><anchor id='Pg032'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_032.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Destruction of Jerusalem by Titus</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='033'/><anchor id='Pg033'/>

<p>
Here is a clear prophecy of the destruction of Jerusalem
by the Roman armies. Our Lord referred to the book
of Daniel, and taught his disciples to read and understand
it; and when they should see take place what was there
predicted, they must make their escape.
</p>

<p>
It would seem to be impracticable to flee from a city
after it was encompassed with armies; but our Saviour did
not speak at random. Josephus tells us that Cestius, the
Roman general who first led the attack upon Jerusalem, became
dismayed at the apparent forces and strength of the
city, and after having surrounded the city raised the siege.
The historian says: <q>He retired from the city, without
any reason in the world.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'><q>Wars,</q> book ii, chap. xix.</hi>
And in the first words of the succeeding chapter he further
states: <q>After this calamity had befallen Cestius, many of
the most eminent Jews swam away from the city, as from
a ship when it was going to sink.</q>
</p>

<p>
Dr. A. Clarke, commenting on verse 16, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>This counsel was remembered and wisely followed by the Christians
afterwards. Eusebius and Epiphanius say, that at this juncture,
after Cestius Gallus had raised the siege, all who believed in Christ left
Jerusalem and fled to Pella, and other places beyond Jordan.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The flight of the Christians of Judea to the mountains
would be attended with difficulties. And their subsequent
condition would be that of hardship and suffering. The
Lord knew this, and gave them the instructions and warnings
necessary. The statement of verse 19 was given to save
them from the sorrows of unnecessary woe. That was a
time of trouble.
</p>

<p>
Jesus recognizes the existence of the Sabbath, in verse
20, as late as the destruction of Jerusalem, as verily as he
does the seasons of the year. <hi rend='italic'>The Sabbath</hi>, is the uniform
<pb n='034'/><anchor id='Pg034'/>
term of both Testaments to designate the very day on which
Jehovah rested after the creation, the day upon which he
put his blessing, and which he set apart for man. Not
only in this instance does our Saviour show his regard for
the sacred day of rest, but in his life he kept it (see Luke
4:16); in his teaching he upheld it, and taught its true
character (Matt. 12:12); and when he lay in the tomb,
the devout women reverently rested <q>according to the
commandment.</q> He himself is Lord of the Sabbath, and
he declares that it was made for man. Mark 2:27, 28.
Jesus does not speak of the Sabbath as being only a
seventh part of time, or one day in seven, and no day in
particular. The Sabbath is the term used, referring to
the last day of the first week of time, and to the last day of
each subsequent week.
</p>

<p>
It is thus that Jesus answered the question, <q>When shall
these things be?</q> He now proceeds to answer the second
great question.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>What Shall Be The Sign Of Thy
Coming?</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse</hi> 21: <q>For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not
since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
It is not surprising, perhaps, that upon a casual reading
some should conclude that this verse had its fulfillment
at the siege of Jerusalem by Titus. It was a time of great
suffering, and the verse follows so closely those which relate
to the destruction of the city, that this explanation suggests
itself readily enough. But for good reasons we cannot
accept that application of this verse. Jesus is giving a
<pb n='035'/><anchor id='Pg035'/>
continuous prophecy. The narrative proceeds from verse
to verse along the line of the entire dispensation.
</p>

<p>
The <q>great tribulation</q> mentioned in verse 21 is that
of the church of Christ, and not the tribulation of the Jews
at the destruction of Jerusalem. We offer the following
reasons for so deciding:&mdash;
</p>

<p>
1. It is a fact that the tribulation of the Christian church,
especially under the reign of the papacy, was greater than
God's people had suffered before <q>since the beginning of
the world.</q> The tribulation of the Christian church has
been greater than it will ever be again. True, a time of
trouble <q>such as never was,</q> spoken of in Dan. 12:1, is
coming <emph>upon the wicked</emph>; but we find in the same verse this
blessed promise, <q>And at that time thy people shall be
delivered.</q> The tribulation of the Jews at the destruction
of Jerusalem was not greater than the world will ever
witness. The vials of Jehovah's unmingled wrath are yet
to be poured out, not upon the people of one nation only,
but upon the guilty people of all nations.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The slain of the Lord shall be at that day from one end of the
earth even unto the other end of the earth; they shall not be lamented,
neither gathered, nor buried.</q> Jer. 25:33.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
2. If the tribulation be applied to the Jews, or to any
other class of unbelieving men, it cannot be harmonized
with Dan. 12:1, which speaks of the time of trouble such
as never was, when Michael shall stand up. Certainly
there cannot be two times of trouble at different periods,
greater than ever was or ever would be. Therefore the
<q>tribulation</q> spoken of in Matt. 24:21, 29, applies not to
the Jews, but to the church of Christ, extending through
the 1260 years of papal persecution; and the <q>trouble</q>
mentioned in Dan. 12:1, to the unbelieving world, to be
experienced by them in the future.
</p>

<pb n='036'/><anchor id='Pg036'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_036.png' rend='width: 60%'>
    <head>St. Bartholomew Massacre.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='037'/><anchor id='Pg037'/>

<p>
3. The period of tribulation was shortened for the elect's
sake. This cannot refer to the Jews, for their house had
been pronounced desolate. They were left of God in their
hardness of heart and blindness of mind. Says Paul, <q>Lo,
we turn to the Gentiles.</q> The elect were the followers of
our Lord Jesus Christ. And where were they when tribulation
was upon the Jews?&mdash;They had fled to the mountains.
It is absurd, then, to say that the days of tribulation of
the Jews in the city of Jerusalem, were shortened for the
sake of the elect, who had fled from the place of tribulation.
Moreover the tribulation that came upon Jerusalem was
not restrained or modified, but continued until the city was
destroyed and its people were given to the sword and to
captivity.
</p>

<p>
4. The connection between verses 20 and 21 shows that
the tribulation was to commence with those Christians who
were to flee out of the city. <q>But pray ye that your flight
be not in the winter, neither on the Sabbath-day; for then
shall be great tribulation.</q> Our Lord here speaks of the
tribulation which his people would suffer from the time of
their flight onward. We follow them in their flight to
the mountains, and then pass along down through the
noted persecutions of the church of God under pagan Rome,
and we see, indeed, <emph>tribulation</emph>. And when we come to
the period of papal persecutions, we see them suffering the
most cruel tortures, and dying the most dreadful deaths that
wicked men and demons could inflict. This last period is
especially noted in prophecy.
</p>

<p>
The prophet Daniel saw the papacy, its blasphemy, its
ignorance, its work of death on the saints, and its duration
as a persecuting power, under the symbol of the little
horn.
</p>

<pb n='038'/><anchor id='Pg038'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_038.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Taking the Pope Prisoner. 1798.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='039'/><anchor id='Pg039'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And he shall speak great words against the Most High, and shall
wear out the saints of the Most High, and think to change times and
laws; and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and
the dividing of time.</q> Dan. 7:25.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
It is generally admitted that <q>a time and times and the
dividing of time</q> is 1260 years. The proof of it may
readily be seen by comparing Rev. 12:14, 6; 13:5, with
the scripture just quoted. In these passages we learn that
<q>time, times, and the dividing of time</q> is equivalent to a
thousand two hundred and threescore days, which equals
three and one half Biblical years, or <q>forty and two
months.</q> Applying the scriptural rule of interpretation, a
day for a year (Eze. 4:6), we have 1260 years.
</p>

<p>
This period is to cover the supremacy of the papacy.
The beginning of it will be the point of the establishment
of the power of the papacy. This was the year 538 <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi>
Justinian, emperor of Rome, with his capital at Constantinople,
espoused the cause of the bishop of Rome; and in
533 <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> issued a decree which constituted that prelate
head of all the churches. But the Arian Ostrogoths had
possession of Rome, and it was not until they had been
rooted up that the city was accessible to the bishop. This
was accomplished in 538, by Belisarius, Justinian's celebrated
general. For a concise and clear account of this
occurrence we refer the reader to the <q>Two Republics,</q>
by A. T. Jones, pp. 551-553.
</p>

<p>
Commencing the 1260 years <hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 538, they reach to
<hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> 1798, when Berthier, a French general, took possession
of Rome. The pope was made a prisoner and carried
with violence away from his palace and out of Italy. The
papacy was stripped of its civil power. Here ended the
days of tribulation spoken of by our Lord, which were&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='040'/><anchor id='Pg040'/>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Shortened For The Elect's Sake.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse</hi> 22: <q>And except those days should be shortened, there
should no flesh be saved; but for the elect's sake those days shall be
shortened.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The papacy was clothed with civil power to punish heretics,
which it held for 1260 years; and had not the period
of tribulation of the elect in the providence of God been
shortened, the martyrdom of the church would have continued
to 1798, in which event, no flesh of the elect would
have been saved. But the Reformation under Martin
Luther, and those associated with this great reformer, modified
this tribulation, and continued to restrain the rage and
power of the papacy until the suppression of the Jesuits
in 1773, since which time, there has been no general persecution
waged against the church. Thus we are brought in
this prophetic discourse of our Lord, down into the eighteenth
century, very near the present time. We would
naturally expect, then, that the instructions and warnings
which follow would be applicable to this generation.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Lo, Here, And Lo, There.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 23-27: <q>Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is
Christ, or there; believe it not. For there shall arise false christs, and
false prophets, and shall show great signs and wonders; insomuch that,
if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect. Behold, I have
told you before. Wherefore if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is
in the desert; go not forth: behold: he is in the secret chambers;
believe it not. For as the lightning cometh out of the east and shineth
even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
In these verses the great theme of Christ's second coming
is again vividly brought forth. Satan is ever on the
alert to contravene by some device or art, the work of God.
His most successful plan is to deceive. By this means he
gains ready access to all such as desire to evade the force of
<pb n='041'/><anchor id='Pg041'/>
truth. And having deceived an individual, he not only prevents
his salvation, but gains to himself an adherent if not
an active agent. So, as the time for the second advent
draws near, the enemy becomes particularly active, knowing
that he hath but a short time. In the words last
quoted our Lord seeks to prepare the minds of his people
for the deceptions that are to be practiced upon those
who live near the time of his second coming. There
will be those who will cry, <q>Lo, here; or Lo, there,</q> some
will even claim to be Christ. They will purport to represent
the truth in regard to Christ's coming in various
plausible or fanatical ways. Others, in order to reach
other minds, will present theories of human device accounting
for the advent of Christ in various so-called rational
schemes. Many sincere people will be led to expect
the conversion of the world through a millennium of peace.
Others will be persuaded that the coming of Christ means
death. And even false prophets, showing great signs and
wonders, will appear. All these form an atmosphere of
deception, the miasma of which will stupefy, if it were
possible, the elect of God.
</p>

<p>
In this fearful work will be engaged the notorious
deceiver, the trained agents of Satan, the worldly philosopher,
worldly preachers, popular ministers, critics of
the Bible, and many whose eyes do not discern the signs
of the times. The Mormons call the people to the desert;
Spiritualism invites us to the secret chamber, where Satanic
signs and wonders are wrought to captivate the mind and
divert it from the truth. Of these <q>false prophets</q> Paul
speaks in 1 Tim. 4:1:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some
shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits and doctrines
of devils.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='042'/><anchor id='Pg042'/>

<p>
In another scripture the apostle places the coming of
Christ in connection with&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,
and with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that
perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they
might be saved. And for this cause God shall send them strong
delusions, that they should believe a lie.</q> 2 Thess. 2:9-11.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
These are some of the deceptions of which Christ is
speaking in the text. It is undoubtedly the work of
modern Spiritualism. This work, in its present form,
originated in the year 1848, and constitutes and is to
constitute one of the most prominent signs of the end.
</p>

<p>
Let no one be deceived by any means. For these
are but subterfuges. They are not the coming of Christ.
He has said, <q>I will come again, and receive you unto
myself.</q> John 14:3.
</p>

<p>
The angels said at his ascension,&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>This same Jesus</hi>, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall
<hi rend='italic'>so come in like manner</hi> as ye have seen him go into heaven.</q> Acts 1:11.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Paul tells us,&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with
the voice of the archangel and with the trump of God.</q> 1 Thess.
4:16.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
And here our Saviour says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>As the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth, unto the
west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
He will come literally, personally, the same Jesus
who was here upon the earth. Not in lowly form as an
offering for sin, to be set at naught, abused, and crucified,
but in <q>all his glory</q> attended with <q>all the holy angels.</q>
Matt. 25:31. We shall know when he comes for <q>every
eye shall see him.</q> Rev. 1:7.
</p>

<pb n='043'/><anchor id='Pg043'/>

<p>
None of these evasions of the truth will ever be able
to counterfeit the real event. The Roman army did not
come to Jerusalem in this way. Death does not come in
this way. The deceptive wonders of Spiritualism cannot
imitate the glory of Christ's second coming. He will come
in power and great glory (verse 30); he will come in the
glory of his Father (chapter 16:27); and in the glory of
the holy angels (Luke 9:26); all the holy angels shall
come with him. Matt. 25:31. His coming will be as
glorious and resplendent as the lightning. When Jesus
revealed himself to Saul of Tarsus, there was a light above
the brightness of the sun (Acts 26:13); of the angel who
appeared at the tomb after the resurrection of Jesus it is
said, <q>His countenance was like lightning</q> (Matt. 28:3);
and Ezekiel says of the messengers of the Most High,
they <q>ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of
lightning.</q> Eze. 1:14.
</p>

<p>
When Jesus comes in the glory of his Father, with
so glorious a train attendant, his coming will indeed be as
the lightning coming out of the east and shining to the west,
and no one will have any more occasion or opportunity to
say to his fellow, <q>See here,</q> than one would have to call
another to behold a gleam of lightning flashing through the
heavens. The vivid lightning flashing out of the distant
east, and shining even to the west, lights up the whole
heavens. What, then, when the Lord comes in flaming
glory, and all the holy angels with him? The presence
of only one holy angel at the sepulcher where Christ
lay dead, caused the Roman guard to shake, and become
as dead men. The light and glory of one angel completely
overpowered those strong sentinels. The Son of
man is coming in his own kingly glory, and in the glory of
his Father, attended by all the holy angels. Then the
<pb n='044'/><anchor id='Pg044'/>
whole heavens will blaze with glory, and the whole earth
will tremble before him.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Signs Of Christ's Coming.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 29-31: <q>Immediately after the tribulation of those days
shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and
the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall
be shaken. And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in
heaven, and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall
see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven, with power and
great glory. And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a
trumpet; and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds,
from one end of heaven to the other.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
We have before seen that our Lord speaks in this
chapter of the long period of tribulation that was to come
upon his followers, and we have also seen how those days
of tribulation were shortened for the elect's sake. Christ
says that the sun should be darkened immediately after the
tribulation of those days. Mark in his gospel, gives it as
follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>In those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be darkened,
and the moon shall not give her light.</q> Mark 13:24.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This makes the time in which the sun was to be darkened
more distinct and definite. The days of tribulation
were the 1260 years of papal supremacy, beginning in 538
<hi rend='smallcaps'>a. d.</hi> and ending with the capture of Rome and the pope
by the French in 1798. But we have already seen that the
<q>tribulation</q> or persecution of those days was <q>shortened</q>
for the elect's sake. That is, the active persecution
of the church by papal power ceased in 1773. Then, according
to Mark's statement, the sun should be darkened
between that date and 1798. It was fulfilled. May 19,
1780, has passed into history as <q>the dark day.</q>
</p>

<pb n='045'/><anchor id='Pg045'/>

<p>
This is a fact of so general knowledge that we need not
consume space in elucidating it. A few references to undoubted
authorities will suffice.
</p>

<p>
Noah Webster's dictionary, in the edition for 1869,
under the head of Explanatory and Pronouncing Vocabulary
of Noted Names, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>The dark day</hi>, May 19, 1780&mdash;so called on account of a remarkable
darkness on that day extending over all New England. In some places,
persons could not see to read common print in the open air for several
hours together. Birds sang their evening songs, disappeared, and
became silent; fowls went to roost; cattle sought the barn-yard; and
candles were lighted in the houses. The obscuration began about ten
o'clock in the morning, and continued till the middle of the next night,
but with differences of degree and duration in different places. For
several days previous, the wind had been variable, but chiefly from
the south-west and the north-east. The true cause of this remarkable
phenomenon is not known.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
From another good authority we quote:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>A solemn gloom of unusual darkness before ten o'clock,&mdash;a still
darker cloud rolling under the sable curtain from the north and west
before eleven o'clock,&mdash;excluded the light so that none could see to
read or write in the House, even at either window, or distinguish
persons at a small distance, or perceive any distinction of dress in
the circle of attendants; wherefore, at eleven o'clock adjourned the
House till two in the afternoon.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Journal of the Connecticut House of
Representatives, Friday, May 19, 1780.</hi>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Herschel, the great astronomer, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The dark day in Northern America was one of those wonderful
phenomena of nature which will always be read with interest, but
which philosophy is at a loss to explain.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
A contemporary paper contained the following:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>During the whole time a sickly, melancholy gloom overcast the
face of nature. Nor was the darkness of the night less uncommon and
terrifying than that of the day, for notwithstanding there was almost a
<pb n='047'/><anchor id='Pg047'/>
full moon, no object was discernible but by the help of some artificial
light, which seen from the neighboring houses and other places at
a distance appeared through a kind of Egyptian darkness which seemed
almost impervious to its rays. This unusual phenomenon excited
the fears and apprehensions of many people.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Mass. Spy, Correspondence,
1780.</hi>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
From another good authority we take the following:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Almost, if not altogether alone as the most mysterious and as yet
unexplained phenomenon of its kind in nature's diversified range of
events during the last century, stands the dark day of May 19, 1780,
a most unaccountable darkening of the whole visible heavens and
atmosphere in New England, which brought intense alarm and distress
to multitudes of minds, as well as dismay to the brute creation, the
fowls fleeing, bewildered, to their roosts, and the birds to their nests,
and the cattle returning to their stalls. Indeed thousands of the good
people of that day became fully convinced that the end of all things
terrestrial had come; many gave up, for the time, their secular pursuits,
and betook themselves to religious devotions.</q>&mdash;<q><hi rend='italic'>Our First Century.</hi></q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
An extract from a sermon preached at that time will be
of interest:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>But especially I mention that <emph>wonderful darkness</emph> on the 19th of
May inst. [1780]. Then, as in our text, the sun was darkened; such
a darkness as probably was never known before since the crucifixion
of our Lord. People left their work in the house and in the field.
Travelers stopped; schools broke up at eleven o'clock; people lighted
candles at noonday; and the fire shone as at night. Some people, I
have been told, were in dismay, and thought whether the day of Judgment
was not drawing on. A great part of the following night also
was singularly dark. The <emph>moon, though in the full, gave no light</emph>, as in our
text.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>From a manuscript sermon by Rev. Elam Potter, delivered May
28, 1780.</hi>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
By the remarkable obscuration of the moon on the following
night, the next sign, <q>And the moon shall not give
her light,</q> was fulfilled. Concerning this it is only necessary
to insert a few words:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='048'/><anchor id='Pg048'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The night succeeding that day (May 19, 1780) was of such pitchy
darkness that, in some instances, horses could not be compelled to
leave the stable when wanted for service. About midnight, the clouds
were dispersed, and the moon and stars appeared with unimpaired
brilliancy.</q>&mdash;<q><hi rend='italic'>Stone's History of Beverly.</hi></q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Mr. Tenny, of Exeter, N. H., quoted by Mr. Gage,
to the Historical Society, speaking of the dark day and
dark night of May 19, 1780, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The darkness of the following evening was probably as gross
as has ever been observed since the Almighty first gave birth to light.
I could not help conceiving at the time, that if every luminous body in
the universe had been shrouded in impenetrable darkness, or struck
out of existence, the darkness could not have been more complete.
A sheet of white paper held within a few inches of the eye was equally
invisible with the blackest velvet.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Concerning a similar phenomenon in the Old World
a reliable work says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Three years later, and Europe with its teeming millions went
under as mysterious a cloud, which, though not so dense, yet continued
longer and awoke a wonder and fear that was widely felt. A haze,
for which no known cause was then assigned (though in subsequent
years it has been supposed by some to have been volcanic dust), spread
through the entire breadth of the atmosphere over all the continent far
into Asia. It appeared in Denmark, May 29, reached France, June 14;
Italy, June 16; Norway, June 22; Austria and Switzerland, June 23;
Sweden, June 24; and Russia, June 25. By the close of the month it
had overspread like a pall all Syria, and on July 18, had penetrated
the heart of Asia to the Altai Mountains. The obscurity prevailed a
greater portion of the summer, imparting to the sun an unnatural
color of a dull, rusty red, and causing both the days and nights to wear
a weird and gloomy aspect. The atmosphere was highly electric, and
nature was greatly convulsed.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Dr. N. Webster in his valuable <q>History of Pestilences,</q> vol. ii.
p. 274, testifies to the general fear. As it was in America on the occurrence
of the <q>dark day,</q> so the churches in Europe were crowded with
alarmed multitudes supplicating mercy of Heaven. Professor Lalande,
<pb n='049'/><anchor id='Pg049'/>
the astronomer of France, attempted to quiet the popular fear by
ascribing the darkened heavens to exhalations arising out of the earth;
but both Webster and Humboldt (Cosmos IV., p. 75) rejected this
solution of the mysterious obscurity. Protestant England shared in
the alarm it occasioned; and the poet Cowper sang that all the elements
<q>preached the general doom.</q> It was to this unaccountable
obscuration of light that he refers in his <q>Task:</q>&mdash;</q>
</p>

<lg>
<l><q rend='pre'><q rend='pre'>Nature seems with dim and sickly eye</q></q></l>
<l><q rend='post'><q rend='post'>To wait the close of all.</q></q></l>
</lg>

<ab>
&mdash;<q><hi rend='italic'>Great Consummation.</hi></q>
</ab>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head><q>And The Stars Shall Fall.</q></head>

<p>
How this sign can be fulfilled is a query with some
people, who, perhaps captiously, remark that it would be
impossible, since the earth itself is but a small body compared
with many of the vast worlds of space. But all such
queries are out of date now since the sign itself has already
been witnessed. On the night of November 13, 1833, the
grandest display of celestial fireworks ever beheld took
place. From works of accepted authority we take the following
descriptions of this remarkable event:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>But the most sublime phenomenon of shooting stars, of which
the world has furnished any record, was witnessed throughout the
United States on the morning of the 13th of November, 1833. The
entire extent of this astonishing exhibition has not been precisely
ascertained; but it covered no inconsiderable portion of the earth's
surface.... The first appearance was that of fireworks of the most
imposing grandeur, covering the entire vault of heaven with myriads of
fire-balls, resembling sky-rockets. Their coruscations were bright,
gleaming, and incessant, and they fell thick as the flakes in the early
snows of December. To the splendors of this celestial exhibition the
most brilliant sky-rockets and fire-works of art bear less relation than the
twinkling of the most tiny star to the broad glare of the sun. The
whole heavens seemed in motion, and suggested to some the awful
grandeur of the image employed in the Apocalypse, upon the opening
of the sixth seal, when <q>the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even
<pb n='051'/><anchor id='Pg051'/>
as a fig-tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty
wind.</q></q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Burritt's <q>Geography of the Heavens,</q> p. 163, ed. 1854.</hi>
</p>

</quote>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_050.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>The Falling Stars.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
A celebrated astronomer and meteorologist, says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>Those who were so fortunate as to witness the exhibition of shooting
stars on the morning of Nov. 13, 1833, probably saw the greatest
display of celestial fire-works that has ever been since the creation of
the world, or at least within the annals covered by the pages of history.</q>
</p>

<p>
<q rend='pre'>In nearly all places the meteors began to attract notice by their
unusual frequency as early as eleven o'clock, and increased in numbers
and splendor until about four o'clock, from which time they gradually
declined, but were visible until lost in the light of day. The meteors
did not fly at random over all parts of the sky, but appeared to emanate
from a point in the constellation Leo, near a star called Gamma Leonis,
in the bend of the Sickle....</q>
</p>

<p>
<q>The extent of the shower of 1833 was such as to cover no inconsiderable
part of the earth's surface, from the middle of the Atlantic
on the east to the Pacific on the west; and from the northern coast
of South America to undefined regions among the British possessions
on the north, the exhibition was visible, and everywhere presented nearly
the same appearance. This is no longer to be regarded as a terrestrial
but a celestial phenomenon, and shooting stars are now to be no more
viewed as casual productions of the upper regions of the atmosphere,
but as <emph>visitants from other worlds</emph>, or from the planetary voids.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Prof.
Olmstead, of Yale College.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<q>No philosopher or scholar has told or recorded an event, I suppose,
like that of yesterday morning. A prophet 1800 years ago foretold
it exactly, if we will be at the trouble of understanding stars falling
to mean falling stars; or <q><foreign rend='italic'>hoi asteres tou ouranou epesan eis teen geen</foreign>,</q>
in the only sense in which it is possible to be literally true.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Henry
Dana Ward, in Journal of Commerce, Nov. 14, 1833.</hi>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Not only here in Matthew 24 is attention directed to
these signs as premonitory of the coming of Christ. The
Lord through the prophet Joel says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood,
before the great and the terrible day of the Lord come.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='053'/><anchor id='Pg053'/>

<p>
Under the sixth seal, as given in Rev. 6:12-17, we
have the following language:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, there
was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of
hair, and the moon became as blood; and the stars of heaven fell unto
the earth even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs when she is
shaken of a mighty wind. And the heaven departed as a scroll when
it is rolled together; and every mountain and island were moved out
of their places.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
That the fourth and fifth seals apply to the papal persecution
there can be no reasonable doubt. If so, then the
great earthquake with which the sixth seal opens would be
that of Lisbon, in 1755, which agitated the greater part of
the earth and destroyed many thousands of lives, 60,000
in Lisbon alone.
</p>

<p>
The darkening of the sun and moon follows in 1780,
and the falling of the stars in 1833. Consequently the
next event which we are to expect under this seal is the
departing of the heavens as a scroll. This being future, we
may say that we are living between the thirteenth and
fourteenth verses of Revelation 6.
</p>

<p>
In the gospel as written by Luke, however, we have at
this point some additional specifications given, which are of
such interest at the present juncture. And they rightfully
belong to this exposition, since both Matthew and Luke are
giving versions of the same discourse. The passage from
Luke to which reference is made is the following:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the
stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea
and the waves roaring; men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking
after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of
heaven shall be shaken.</q> Luke 21:25-27.
</p>

</quote>

<pb n='054'/><anchor id='Pg054'/>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_054.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Modern Cyclone.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<pb n='055'/><anchor id='Pg055'/>

<p>
The signs in the sun, moon, and stars are here spoken of
less specifically than by Matthew, while other features of the
times, which Matthew does not notice, are introduced between
those signs and the shaking of the powers of heaven. These
are of peculiar interest to us because we are living in the
very days when the things that Luke speaks of are coming
to pass. The signs here predicted consist of violent commotions
upon earth which cause anxiety, perplexity, and distress
among nations and in the hearts of men. We may refer the
expression, <q>the sea and the waves roaring,</q> to unusual disturbances
of the natural elements, and we have the most
abundant evidences of its fulfillment in the storms and convulsions
of nature that are occurring by sea and land, filling
the heart with dread at the sight of every dark cloud that
arises. The tidal waves and volcanic upheavals at sea have,
in the last two or three decades, been marked with extraordinary
violence. On land, cyclones and earthquakes have
carried on a fearful work of destruction. Many instances
might be cited to substantiate this statement, but the events
are too familiar to require it. Hardly a week passes but
some great calamity of this kind is recorded.
</p>

<p>
But the expression referred to is probably susceptible
of another application in which it will be found to be as
forcible and pertinent to the present state of affairs as in
the one just noticed. This would be to give the term <q>sea
and waves</q> its symbolic meaning. The prophet of old
said: <q>And behold the four winds of heaven strove upon
the great sea.</q> Dan. 7:2. We are told that the sea represents
<q>peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.</q>
Rev. 17:15. Taking the words in this sense, the meaning
and fulfillment are still as apparent as before; and the expression
joins its force to that of the remainder of the passage&mdash;<q>upon
the earth distress of nations, with perplexity;
<pb n='057'/><anchor id='Pg057'/>
the sea and the waves roaring; men's hearts failing them
for fear and for looking after those things which are coming
on the earth.</q> In this sense the expression in question
would indicate commotion and violent disturbance in the
social and political world. In this meaning all will at once
see the vivid force of the text as applied to our times.
</p>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_056.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Assassination of Carnot.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
The times we live in are anomalous to any that have
ever preceded us. For some years there have been universal
and active preparations for war, and almost universal
peace. To secure the greatest efficiency of armed forces
for defensive and offensive purposes, has been the prime
consideration of government, especially so, as far as the Old
World nations are concerned. Europe echoes to the tread
of vast hosts of war while the nations are driven to their
wits' end to provide for their support. It is well known that
these costly preparations are not for show; and the hearts
of men quail in view of the culmination which, though delayed,
must soon be reached.
</p>

<p>
But while the temple of Janus is closed as far as international
strife is concerned, and angel hands are holding the
winds of war (see Rev. 7:1-3), internal strife and dissension
are rending the vitals of the great nations of earth. Within
the confines of its own border, each of these nations is cherishing
elements of the deadliest nature. Trouble is brewing
that has for the people far more terror than foreign complications.
For some time the ominous mutterings of an oncoming
storm have been heard in every land, and it requires
no remarkable acumen to discern the rapid approach of the
crisis.
</p>

<p>
The apostle James strikes directly at the matter in a
prophetic glance and exhortation in the following language:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='058'/><anchor id='Pg058'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that
shall come upon you. Your riches are corrupted, and your garments
are moth-eaten. Your gold and silver is cankered; and the rust of them
shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire.
Ye have heaped treasure together for the last days. Behold, the hire
of the laborers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you
kept back by fraud, crieth; and the cries of them which have reaped
are entered into the ears of the Lord of Sabaoth. Ye have lived in
pleasure on the earth, and been wanton; ye have nourished your
hearts, as in a day of slaughter. Ye have condemned and killed the
just; and he doth not resist you.</q> James 5:1-6.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The apostle locates the circumstances he here refers to
in the last days. He denounces the rich men who have
heaped together treasures, the rust and canker of which will
be a witness against them. They live in pleasure and wantonness
while the cries of those whose wages they have kept
back enter into the ears of the Lord of Hosts.
</p>

<p>
There is a universal cry of hard times in all the world.
It is hard to obtain money; and yet, there never was so much
money as at present. But it is being collected&mdash;gathered
in heaps&mdash;by the powerful few, while the limited
means of the masses are dwindling lower and lower. The
poorer classes witness the absorption of wealth by the
money-kings, with feelings that are being aroused to the
point of desperation by the sense of their inability to secure
what seems to them a more equitable distribution of the
things of this world. The laborers cry, and God hears
their cry.
</p>

<p>
That these things are taking place to-day as the most
prominent feature of our social life no one will for a moment
deny. Such colossal fortunes the world has heretofore at
most but dreamed of. There are men living to-day who
have risen in wealth from obscure stations to become lords
<pb n='059'/><anchor id='Pg059'/>
of untold millions. Their wealth passes the bounds of just
computation, for it includes the power of oppression by which
it may be indefinitely increased. The lavish expenditure of
these means for selfish pleasure often amounts to wantonness.
</p>

<p>
Well then, what is to be done? It is a difficult and
delicate matter to frame and secure legislation by which
this or any other class of men shall be deprived of the
management of their own business as long as that business
is legitimate and is legitimately conducted. Shall anarchy
and violence be resorted to? Shall the laborer seize the
torch and the weapons of death? Shall the country be
devastated by strikes, strife, and civil war? Shall our communities
be rent with murder, arson, treason, and intense
personal hatred and enmity? No one possessing the natural
instincts of humanity could contemplate such a condition
of affairs except with horror. There are ghouls of society
who gloat in blood; but such are not true citizens, they
are not neighbors, they certainly are not Christians.
</p>

<p>
But what shall we do as citizens, neighbors, and Christians?
This is a question of great importance just now.
Inspiration long ago foresaw our situation. The pitying
Saviour long since anticipated the sufferings that are to
come upon this generation; and having, through his servant,
outlined the present condition of affairs so closely, he
certainly would not leave his followers uninformed as to
the course he would have them pursue. We have to read
only two verses farther in James's letter to find the counsel
we need.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q><hi rend='italic'>Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord.</hi> Behold,
the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath
long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain. Be ye
<pb n='061'/><anchor id='Pg061'/>
also patient; stablish your hearts; <hi rend='italic'>for the coming of the Lord draweth
nigh</hi>.</q> James 5:7, 8.
</p>

</quote>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_060.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>Chicago Riot.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Oppression and revolt, combination and intrigue, strife
and bloodshed, never will cease until the supreme selfishness,
which in the absence of divine grace controls all men,
gives place to true philanthropy, and a brotherhood that
is not outlined by class or sectional interests. This happy
time is coming. When Jesus comes, he will take to himself
his power and reign in righteousness. Then will the hills
be brought low, the valleys exalted, the crooked be made
straight, and the rough places smooth.
</p>

<p>
Those who are weary of strife, those who through misfortune
or oppression have been made to feel their need
of relief will find rest to their souls in looking for the
coming of the Lord. It is vain to match evil with evil or
to try to cure wrong with wrong. The gospel of Christ is
the only remedy for these ills. And all that we can really
do to counteract the annoyances of this life must be done
through the gospel of peace. In this time of perplexity,
distress, and fear, let every Christian hold up Christ. Let
his patient suffering be exemplified in whatever circumstances
may come. Just a little beyond, there is relief.
</p>

<p>
Strikes, boycotts, lock-outs, trusts, unions, or any other
human device or demonstration only augments the trouble,
as the experience of the past few years shows. For there
never was so much of these things as now, and never was
capital so insecure, business so uncertain, and labor in such
distress as at present. The employment of arbitrary force
provokes greater efforts on the opposite side, and thus the
breach is widened and the strife becomes more bitter. We
do not argue the merits or demerits of the case. That there
is deep wrong involved, the fruits plainly show. It is our
task only to point out the one remedy available alike to
<pb n='062'/><anchor id='Pg062'/>
either and all. That remedy is the gospel of Christ, which
is soon to close in a glorious triumph for those who have
patiently and faithfully wrought his will.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head><q>The Powers Of Heaven Shall Be Shaken.</q></head>

<p>
We do not apprehend that this circumstance will occur
as a sign of Christ's coming, but rather that it will constitute
one of the events of his coming, the same as the features
mentioned in the next verse. An evident distinction may
be drawn between the <emph>signs</emph> of the advent and the circumstances
of it. With the falling of the stars, the former
cease; and with the next event the latter commence. This
event, the shaking of the powers of heaven, we must regard
as being future. It holds the same place in the events
of this chapter, that the departing of the heavens as a
scroll does in the events of the sixth seal of Revelation 6.
Both follow the falling stars. The Scriptures plainly teach
that, prior to the resurrection of the just by the voice of
the Son of God, the voice of God the Father will shake the
heavens and the earth, when will be fulfilled the shaking
of the powers of the heaven. This is not the voice of the
Son of God as he descends to raise the dead. It comes
from the throne of God in the temple of heaven.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The Lord also shall roar out of Zion, and utter his voice from
Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth shall shake; but the Lord
will be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children of
Israel.</q> Joel 3:16.
</p>

<p>
<q>Therefore will I shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove out
of her place, in the wrath of the Lord of hosts, and in the day of his
fierce anger.</q> Isa. 13:13.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Paul quotes from the words of the Lord by Haggai and
comments as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='063'/><anchor id='Pg063'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven. And
this word, yet once more, signifieth the removing of those things that
are shaken.</q> Heb. 12:26, 27.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head><q>Sign Of The Son Of Man.</q></head>

<p>
Neither is this one of the signs showing that the coming
of the Son of man is near, but <q>the sign of the Son of
man in heaven.</q> It is that which indicates his position.
When Christ ascended from the mount of Olivet, <q>a cloud
received him</q> from the sight of his disciples. They still
gazed at the cloud as it rolled upward, bearing the Saviour
toward the Father's throne but they could not see his
person. When he comes <q>in like manner</q> as he was taken
up to heaven, the cloud will appear, small in the distance,
but as it draws near, it will signify to those who are looking
for his return, that he is there, and soon his presence
will fill the earth with matchless glory. In Rev. 14:14,
the holy seer records his view of the coming Saviour in
the following words: <q>And I looked, and behold a white
cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of
man.</q>
</p>

<p>
This is not a mass of vapor but a cloud of resplendent
glory. He comes <q>with power and great glory.</q> He
will <q>come in the glory of his Father</q> (Matt. 16:27);
in his own glory, <q>and all the holy angels with him.</q>
Matt. 25:31. The glory of the Father, of the Son, and
of all the holy angels&mdash;this glory will comprise the cloud
which attends him on the way. Of its intensity we can
form no just conception. In the presence of one angel
the Roman guard <q>did quake and became as dead men.</q>
There are ten thousand times ten thousand and thousands
of thousands of them in this throng. Above the brightness
of their glory is that of the Father and the Son.
</p>

<pb n='064'/><anchor id='Pg064'/>

<p>
At first the cloud is only perceptible, but as it approaches,
it attracts attention, and at length every eye is fastened
intently upon the wonderful spectacle. The trumpet resounds,
the voice of the Archangel awakens the dead, and
they come forth to share in the glorious revelation of
their Redeemer. All nature is convulsed with her coming
dissolution. Each moment the glory draws nearer, and
soon the wicked can no longer endure the sight.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall
see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and
great glory.</q> Verse 30.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Again attention is directed to the parallel language of
Rev. 6:15-47:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich
men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bond
man, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks
of the mountains; and said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us,
and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from
the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of his wrath is come; and
who shall be able to stand?</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The prophet Isaiah describes the same thrilling event
from the other standpoint&mdash;that of the waiting people of
God:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>He will swallow up death in victory, and the Lord God will
wipe away tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall
he take away from off all the earth; for the Lord hath spoken it.
And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited
for him, and he will save us: this is the Lord; we have waited for
him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.</q> Isa. 25:8, 9.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The apostle Paul gives a vivid description of the event
with its attendant circumstances as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning
them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have
<pb n='065'/><anchor id='Pg065'/>
no hope. For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so
them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him. For this
we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and
remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which
are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a
shout, with the voice of the Archangel, and with the trump of God:
and the dead in Christ shall rise first: then we which are alive and
remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet
the Lord in the air; and so shall we ever be with the Lord.</q> 1 Thess.
4:13-17.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The once slighted, insulted, and crucified Saviour, now
King of kings and Lord of lords, is coming near the earth!
His glory blazes everywhere! The saints hope and rejoice
with trembling. But what an hour for the wicked! The
tribes of the earth mourn. Amid the ruins of shivered
creation they hold one general prayer-meeting. Kings
and great men, rich men, chief captains and mighty men,
free and bond, all, yes, all unite in the general wail. As
the Son of man in the glory of his Father, attended by
all the holy angels, draws still nearer, consternation fills
every breast. They hide in dens and in the rocks of the
mountains. Their only hope is to be concealed from the
glory of that scene. They know it is too late to pray for
mercy, that probation for the human family has ended
forever.
</p>

<p>
But rocks cannot shelter them from the burning glory
manifested by the King of kings, attended by the whole
heavenly host. When <q>the Son of man shall come in the
glory of the Father,</q> <q>and all the holy angels with him,</q>
no sinner can endure the scene and live. The exceeding
brightness of that vast multitude of angels, brighter than
a thousand suns at noonday, will pierce the sinner's lowest
hiding place, and will <q>make even a speedy riddance of
all them that dwell in the land.</q> Zeph. 1:18. The Son
<pb n='066'/><anchor id='Pg066'/>
of man will be seen <q>coming in the clouds of heaven
with power and great glory.</q> But before his coming a
great work will be done for his people. Should he suddenly
burst upon them now, they could not endure <q>the
power and great glory</q> of the scene. This subject is
well illustrated by the following words of the prophet:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the Lord; his
going forth is prepared as the morning; and he shall come unto us as
the rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.</q> Hosea 6:3.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The morning is a beautiful figure of the opening glory
of the day of God. The day-star first appears, then the
dawn of day. And as the light of day increases, the eyes
are enabled to endure it, and view the sun shining in his
strength. But should the light of the sun burst upon the
world suddenly at midnight, no human eye could endure it.
</p>

<p>
So will the people of God be prepared to meet their
coming King. They must first break away from the love
and cares of this world, and consecrate all to the Lord.
Then will they, in due time, share the outpouring of the
Holy Spirit <q>as the rain, as the latter and former rain
upon the earth.</q> The day-star will arise in their hearts.
2 Peter 1:19. Those who have taken heed to the sure
word of prophecy through the dark, watching night, then
raise their heads in triumph. They are filled with faith
and with the Holy Spirit. Glory is poured upon them till
they can gaze on Christ and angels. The trumpet sounds.
The angels are dispatched to the graves of the righteous.
The voice of the Son of God awakes the sleeping saints of
all ages. They come forth in immortal perfection and,
as they leave the earth, the living saints are changed.
The <q>elect from one end of heaven to the other,</q> each
with an angel bright and strong to lead the way, are caught
<pb n='067'/><anchor id='Pg067'/>
up to meet the Lord, who waits in mid-heaven to receive
the purchase of his blood. As language would fail to describe
what follows, we leave the reader to contemplate it,
praying that we may be prepared to participate in the meeting
scene.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Parable Of The Fig-Tree.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 32, 33: <q>Now learn a parable of the fig-tree; when his
branch is yet tender and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is
nigh. So likewise ye when ye shall see all these things, know that it
[<q>he,</q> R. V.] is near, even at the doors.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This parable is probably the most forcible figure that
could be used with which to illustrate this subject. When
the trees of the field begin to put forth their leaves, and
the tender grass springs up, and the ground is being covered
with its green velvet carpet, we know that summer is nigh.
It is a certainty with us that summer is coming when we
see these signs in nature. We know that summer is nigh
<q><emph>So, likewise</emph>,</q> or, with the same certainty, we may <emph>know</emph>
that Christ's coming is near when the signs in the sun,
moon, and stars are fulfilled. How near?&mdash;Even at the
doors. How near may that be?
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verse</hi> 34: <q>Verily I say unto you. This generation shall not
pass, till all these things be fulfilled.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
It is sometimes claimed that the generation spoken of
was the one then living. If so, it could have been to no
greater extent than referring to the answer of the question
relating to the destruction of Jerusalem. But it would
be wholly illogical to limit the application of the statement
to that generation or to place its principal significance
there. <q>All these things</q> must include the signs and
circumstances of which Christ has been speaking. In the
<pb n='068'/><anchor id='Pg068'/>
preceding verses he gives the parable of the fig-tree, and
addresses those who are to be living at that time directly.
<q>So likewise <emph>ye</emph>, when <emph>ye</emph> shall see all these things, <emph>know</emph>
that it is near.</q> And then, <q><emph>This</emph> generation shall not
pass.</q> What generation? Evidently the one which he
was addressing, and which saw <q>these things come to
pass.</q> Not only does such an interpretation do no violence
to the Saviour's meaning, but it is obviously the only one
that can be reasonably entertained in regard to it.
</p>

<p>
Paul speaks in the first person of those who will be
living when Jesus comes, for he says, <q>We shall not all
sleep, but we shall all be changed, in a moment, in the
twinkling of an eye, at the last trump.</q> 1 Cor. 15:51, 52.
Or, <q>Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught
up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in
the air.</q> 1 Thess. 4:17. The things here mentioned by
the apostle did not take place in his day. They have not
yet taken place. Notwithstanding, he speaks of them as
though they would take place in his day, and as if he were
to have a part in them.
</p>

<p>
The proclamation of the coming and kingdom of Christ
is given to the last generation. God sent Noah to preach
to the last generation before the flood, not to any preceding
one. The very generation which was destroyed by the
waters of the flood saw Noah build the ark, and heard
his warning voice. So God has raised up men to give the
solemn warning to the world at the right time to give force
to the warning. And the very generation of men that live
after the three great signs are fulfilled, and who hear and
reject the warning message of Heaven, will drink the cup
of the unmingled wrath of God. And those of this very
generation who receive the message, suffer disappointments,
and endure the trials of the waiting position, will witness
<pb n='069'/><anchor id='Pg069'/>
the coming of Christ, and exclaim, <q>Lo, this is our God;
we have <emph>waited</emph> for him, and he will save us.</q> Isa. 25:9.
</p>

<p>
With what emphasis our Lord gave utterance to this
sentiment! It is a rebuke upon our unbelief. As we
read it, God help us to believe it: <q>Verily I say unto
you, This generation shall not pass, till all these things be
fulfilled.</q> And as though this were not enough to lead us
to unwavering faith, he adds these forcible words: <q>Heaven
and earth shall pass away but my words shall not pass
away.</q>
</p>

<p>
The word and promises of men may fail; but Christ
has given assurance that his word, and his word in reference
to this solemn truth, will stand though heaven and
earth fail.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head><q>The Day And Hour.</q></head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 36, 37: <q>But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no,
not the angels of heaven, but my Father only. But as the days of
Noe were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This has become a very familiar passage of scripture
because of the frequent use that is made of it to prove that
nothing can be known of the proximity of the second coming
of Christ. But if we pause a moment and lay beside
this verse those we have just studied, we shall be able to
discover the exact truth at once. <q>When ye shall see these
things, know that it is near even at the doors;</q> and, <q>This
generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled;</q>
<q>But of that day and hour knoweth no man.</q> The line
of knowledge, then, lies between the former expressions and
the latter&mdash;between <q>even at the doors</q> and the definite
day and hour. The former we may know, and every
Christian is commanded to know. The latter no man knoweth.
One may consistently say that he knows an event is
<pb n='071'/><anchor id='Pg071'/>
near, and yet say that he does not know the hour nor the
day when it will take place. That this is the scriptural
teaching upon this point may be readily proved by a reference
to 1 Thess. 5:1-4:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that
I write unto you. For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the
Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. For when they shall say,
Peace and safety; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail
upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape. But ye, brethren,
are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
An evident distinction is here drawn between two classes.
Upon one class the day of the Lord will come as a thief.
Those of the other are not in darkness that that day should
come as a thief upon them. The children of God are
children of light. Their heavenly Father knows the end
from the beginning, and he has promised to reveal his
secret to his people through his servants the prophets.
Amos 3:7.
</p>

<p>
The apostle Peter also bears testimony to the same truth.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do
well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place,
until the day dawn and the day-star arise in your hearts.</q> 2 Peter
1:19.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The dark place here spoken of is the future. The past
is lighted up by history, the present is brought to our
knowledge by press and telegraph; but the future no
human art or wisdom can penetrate. Prophecy throws its
gleam into those dark regions, yet unexplored, and marks
out the path of human history centuries and ages before
it has echoed to the footsteps of mankind. When at last
we pass along the pathway, we may, if we will, recognize
the waymarks set up here and there, every one of which
<pb n='072'/><anchor id='Pg072'/>
is a monument to the wisdom and knowledge of God, and
the faithfulness of his word. Those who have no eyes to
discern these things, no ears to hear, nor hearts to understand
their significance, will pass on, and the final event
will come upon them unawares. Not so with those who
take heed to the things God has spoken.
</p>

<p>
We would not detract an iota from the force of the
verse under consideration. It means all it says. No man
knows the definite time of Christ's coming. The day and
hour, and even the year of the second advent are purposely
hidden. Some of the prophetic periods reach to the time of
the end, while others extend still farther down, very near to
the end itself; yet none of them reach to the coming of the
Son of man. The prophecies clearly point to the period of
the second advent, but do not give the definite time of that
event.
</p>

<p>
But with this passage before us we may claim that it
would be transcending its meaning to claim upon its authority
that nothing should or could be known of the
approach of Christ's coming. More than that, it is not
inconsistent with the text nor improbable that prior to that
event the Lord will in his own way reveal that which has
hitherto been withheld. Those who claim that the text
proves that nothing may be known of the period of the
second advent, make it prove too much for their own unbelief.
As recorded by Mark, the declaration reads: <q>But
of that day and that hour knoweth no man, no, not the
angels which are in Heaven, neither the Son, but the
Father.</q> If the text proves that men will know nothing
of the period of the second advent, it also proves that
angels will know nothing of it, and also that the Son will
know nothing of it, till the event takes place! This position
proves too much, therefore proves nothing to the point.
<pb n='073'/><anchor id='Pg073'/>
Christ will know of the period of his second advent to
this world. The holy angels who wait around the throne
of heaven to receive messages relative to the part they act
in the salvation of men, will know of the time of this closing
event of salvation. And so will the waiting, watching
people of God understand. An old English version of the
passage reads, <q>But that day and hour no man maketh
known, neither the angels which are in heaven, neither the
Son, but the Father.</q> This is the correct reading, according
to several of the ablest critics of the age. The word
<emph>know</emph> is used in the same sense here that it is by Paul
in 1 Cor. 2:2: <q>For I determined not to know [make
known] anything among you, save Jesus Christ and him
crucified.</q> Men will not make known the day and hour,
angels will not make it known, neither will the Son; but
the Father will make it known. Says Campbell:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Macknight argues that the term <emph>known</emph> is here used as a causative,
in the Hebrew sense of the conjugation <foreign rend='italic'>hiphil</foreign>, that is, <emph>to make known</emph>....
His [Christ's] answer is just equivalent to saying, The Father will
make it known when it pleases him; but he has not authorized man,
angel, or the Son to make it known. Just in this sense, Paul uses the
term <emph>know</emph>, 1 Cor. 2:2: <q>I came to you <emph>making known</emph> the testimony of
God; for I determined to <emph>make known</emph> nothing among you but a crucified
Christ.</q></q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Albert Barnes, in his <q>Notes on the Gospels,</q> says:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Others have said that the verb rendered <emph>knoweth</emph> means sometimes
to <emph>make</emph> known, or to reveal, and that the passage means, <q>that
day and hour none maketh known, neither the angels, nor the Son, but
the Father.</q> It is true the word has sometimes that meaning, as
1 Cor. 2:2.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
When the patriarch's work of warning and building was
finished, God said to him, <q>Come thou and all thy house
into the ark.</q> <q>For yet seven days and I will cause it to
rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights.</q> So when
<pb n='074'/><anchor id='Pg074'/>
the waiting, watching, weeping, toiling time shall be finished,
and the saints shall all be sealed, and shut in with
God, then, we conclude, will the voice of the Father from
heaven make known the definite time. See Rev. 16:17;
Joel 3:16; Jer. 25:30.
</p>

<p>
The present is emphatically the waiting, watching time.
It is the especial period of the patience of the saints. The
Lord appeals to us thus:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Watch ye, therefore; for ye know not when the Master of the
house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the
morning; lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping. And what I say
unto you I say unto all, Watch.</q> Mark 13:35-37.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
One of the fatal consequences of not watching is distinctly
stated in Rev. 3:3:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as a thief,
and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
In consequence of not watching, the people will remain
in ignorance of the approach of that hour. And the unavoidable
inference is that by watching they will be aware
of and prepared for its coming. In answer to the agonizing
prayer of the Son of God, <q>Father, glorify thy name,</q> there
came a voice from heaven, saying, <q>I have both glorified
it, and will glorify it again.</q> The disciples understood
these words from heaven, while the people that stood by
said it thundered. John 12:27-29. So will the waiting
disciples of Christ understand the voice of God when he
shall speak from on high. But the unbelieving world will
not understand it. In comparing Noah's days and ours,
the Lord continues:&mdash;
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Noah's Time And Ours.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 38, 39: <q>For as in the days that were before the flood,
they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until
<pb n='075'/><anchor id='Pg075'/>
the day that Noe entered into the ark, and knew not until the flood
came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son
of man be.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
A picture of the present condition of the mass of mankind
is here drawn. The people of the last generation will
be like those before the flood, while the ark was preparing.
While Noah preached, and warned them of the coming
flood, they mocked. He built the ark; and they scoffed and
jeered. He was a preacher of righteousness. His works
were calculated to give edge to, and send home to the heart,
what he preached. Every righteous sermon, and every
blow struck in building the ark, condemned a careless,
scoffing world. As the time drew nearer, the people grew
more careless, more hardened, more bold and impudent,
and their condemnation surer. Noah and his family stood
alone. And could one family know more than all the world?
The ark was a matter of ridicule, and Noah was regarded
as a willful bigot.
</p>

<p>
But the Lord calls Noah into the ark. And by the hand
of Providence the beasts are led into the ark; and the Lord
shuts Noah in. This is regarded at first by the scoffing
multitude as something wonderful; but it is soon explained
away by the wiser ones, so as to calm their fears, and they
breathe easier.
</p>

<p>
The day of expectation finally arrives. The sun rises
as usual, and the heavens are clear. <q>Now where is old
Noah's flood?</q> is heard from a thousand impious lips. The
farmer is caring for his herds and lands, and the mechanic
is pursuing his work of building. On this very day, some
are being joined in marriage. With many it is a day of
unusual feasting and sports. And while all are looking to
long years of future prosperity and happiness, suddenly the
heavens gather blackness. Fear fills every heart. The windows
<pb n='076'/><anchor id='Pg076'/>
of heaven open, and the rain descends in torrents.
<q>The fountains of the great deep are broken up,</q> and here
and there come gushing up rivers of water. The valleys are
fast filling up, and thousands are swept away in death.
Awful death! made still more horrible by being in consequence
of slighted mercy! But where is Noah? Ah!
safe in the ark, borne upon the billows. Safe from the
flood, for God <q>shut him in.</q>
</p>

<p>
By some people, the evidences of the soon coming of
Christ are considered insufficient to base faith upon. But
the testimony and acts of one man in the case of Noah,
condemned the people destroyed by the flood. The evidences
then were sufficient, otherwise the world would not
have been condemned. But a hundred times more convincing
evidences come pouring in upon us that the day of
the Lord is near, and hasteth greatly. We follow down
the several prophetic chains of Daniel and of the Revelation,
and we find ourselves in every instance standing just
before the day of wrath. We see the signs spoken of by
prophets, by Christ, and by the apostles, fulfilling or fulfilled.
And at the right time, and in the right manner, to
fulfill certain prophecies, a solemn message arises in different
parts of the world: <q>Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and
sound an alarm in my holy mountain; let all the inhabitants
of the land tremble; for the day of the Lord cometh,
for it is nigh at hand.</q> Joel 2:1. Wherever we look,
we see prophecy fulfilling. While the knowledge of God
and the spirit of holiness are departing, spiritual wickedness,
like a flood, covers the land.
</p>

<p>
But these evidences are considered insufficient to rest
faith upon. Well, what kind of evidence would the unbelieving
have? <q>When the signs of the end,</q> says the
skeptic, <q>are fulfilled, they will be so plain that no one
<pb n='077'/><anchor id='Pg077'/>
can doubt.</q> But if the signs are of such a nature, and are
fulfilled in such a manner, as to compel all to believe in
the coming of Christ, how can it be as it was in the days
of Noah? Men were not then compelled to believe. But
eight believing souls were saved, while all the world besides
sank in their unbelief beneath the waters of the flood.
God has never revealed his truth to man in a manner to
compel him to believe. Those who have wished to doubt
his word, have found a wide field in which to doubt, and
a broad road to perdition; while those who have wished
to believe, have ever found an everlasting rock upon
which to rest their faith.
</p>

<p>
Just before the end, the world will be hardened in sin,
and indifferent to the claims of God. Men will be careless
in regard to the warnings of danger, and blinded by cares,
pleasures, and riches. An unbelieving generation will be
eating, drinking, marrying, building, planting, and sowing.
It is right to eat and drink to sustain nature, but the sin is
in excess and gluttony. The marriage covenant is holy,
but God's glory is seldom thought of. Building, planting,
and sowing, necessary for convenient shelter, food,
and clothing, are right; but the world has gone wholly
after these things, so that men have no time nor disposition
to think of God, heaven, Christ's coming, and the
Judgment. This world is their god, and all their energies
of body and mind are made to serve it. And the evil
day is put far away.
</p>

<p>
The faithful watchman who sounds the alarm as he
sees destruction coming, is held up before the people from
the pulpits of our land, and by the religious press, as a
fanatic, a teacher of dangerous heresies; while in contrast
is set forth a long period of peace and prosperity to the
church. So the churches are quieted to sleep. The scoffer
<pb n='079'/><anchor id='Pg079'/>
continues to scoff, and the mocker mocks on. But that
day is coming. Thus saith the prophet of God:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Howl ye; for the day of the Lord is at hand; it shall come as a
destruction from the Almighty. Therefore shall all hands be faint,
and every man's heart shall melt. And they shall be afraid; pangs
and sorrows shall take hold of them.... Behold, the day of the
Lord cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land
desolate; and he shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it.</q> Isa.
13:6-9.
</p>

</quote>

<p rend='text-align: center'>
  <figure url='images/i_078.png' rend='width: 80%'>
    <head>The Day of Wrath.</head>
    <figDesc>Illustration</figDesc>
  </figure>
</p>

<p>
Most dreadful day! and is it near?&mdash;Yes; it hasteth!
It hasteth greatly! What a description given by the
prophet! Read it; and as you read, try to realize how
dreadful will be that day:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>The great day of the Lord is near, it is near, and hasteth greatly,
even the voice of the day of the Lord: the mighty man shall cry there
bitterly. That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a
day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a
day of clouds and thick darkness, a day of the trumpet and alarm
against the fenced cities, and against the high towers. And I will
bring distress upon men, that they shall walk like blind men, because
they have sinned against the Lord; and their blood shall be poured
out as dust, and their flesh as the dung. Neither their silver nor
their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of the Lord's
wrath; but the whole land shall be devoured by the fire of his jealousy;
for he shall make even a speedy riddance of all them that dwell
in the land.</q> Zeph. 1:14-18.
</p>

</quote>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Peace And Safety.</head>

<p>
The attitude of the religious world toward this most
important subject is worthy of more than passing notice
both because of its effect upon the cause of truth and also
because it of itself is a sign of the times. While it is
true that many individuals in the different Christian denominations
recognize with more or less distinctness the
fact that we are living in the last days, with many of these
<pb n='080'/><anchor id='Pg080'/>
it does not become a practical truth. Outside of these
there are many who ridicule the idea as preposterous and
outlandish; and in opposition to the message that Christ
is soon coming, raise the cry of, <q>Peace, peace, when
there is no peace.</q> Such teaching is alluded to by the
prophet in Eze. 13:10, 11.
</p>

<p>
The groundwork of the peace and safety cry is the
doctrine of the temporal millennium. This teaches that
the world is now entering, or about to enter upon a period
of universal peace and good will, that the moral tone of
the world is improving, men and nations are learning
righteousness; and the gospel of Christ is about to become
the controlling principle in public and private life. And,
further, this happy state will continue for one thousand
years, which period of time the word millennium literally
signifies. At the end of that time, perhaps, the Lord
will come. However, if this doctrine be true, it will
make but little difference to this generation or to the
one living at the close of the period whether he does or
not. The verses we have just considered which liken the
last days to those of Noah wholly disprove this position.
In addition to what Matthew states, Luke gives a still
more forcible version of our Saviour's words:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in the days
of the Son of man. They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they
were given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark,
and the flood came, and destroyed them all. Likewise also as it was
in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold,
they planted, they builded; but the same day that Lot went out of
Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them
all. Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed.</q>
Luke 17:26-30.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Paul writes in his epistles to Timothy as follows:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='081'/><anchor id='Pg081'/>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some
shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines
of devils.</q> 1 Tim. 4:1.
</p>

<p>
<q>This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.
For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud,
blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural
affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers
of those that are good, traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures
more than lovers of God; having a form of godliness, but denying the
power thereof: from such turn away.</q> 2 Tim. 3:1-5.
</p>

<p>
<q>But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving,
and being deceived.</q> Verse 13.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
In very many scriptures it is plainly declared that when
Christ comes, he comes not only to reward and save his
people but also to punish his enemies. Looking upon the
last days he exclaims, <q>Nevertheless when the Son of man
cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?</q> Luke 18:8.
The idea of a thousand years of peace and righteousness
before Christ comes might be dismissed as utterly out of
the question. But space will be given to one or two passages
supposed to teach it, which will represent the whole class.
The first and chief is found in Isa. 2:2-4:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the
Lord's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall
be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it. And many
people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of
the Lord, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of
his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth
the law, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem. And he shall
judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they
shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into
pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither
shall they learn war any more.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Almost the same language is used in Micah 4:1-3.
It is enough to call attention to the authorship of the
<pb n='082'/><anchor id='Pg082'/>
propositions contained in the text. They come from the
people. <q>Many people shall go and say, Come ye,</q> etc.
Inspiration asserts that in the last days the mountain or
power of the Lord's house or church shall be established
in the tops of the mountains, or civil power. Undoubtedly
it will. Everything is tending to the union of Church
and State and the professed church of Christ is riding on
a high tide to civil power in all lands. But farewell to
godliness and spiritual power. When this is accomplished,
in a general chorus all will proclaim the dawning millennium.
</p>

<p>
How the Lord regards the people who are saying these
things is shown in the succeeding verses:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people the house of Jacob,
because they be replenished from the east, and are soothsayers like the
Philistines, and they please themselves in the children of strangers.
Their land also is full of silver and gold, neither is there any end of
their treasures; their land also is full of horses, neither is there any
end of their chariots: their land also is full of idols; they worship the
work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made.</q>
Isa. 2:6-8.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Now let us see what God says on the same point and
concerning the same time:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Proclaim ye this among the Gentiles; prepare war, wake up the
mighty men, let all the men of war draw near; let them come up: beat
your ploughshares into swords, and your pruninghooks into spears: let
the weak say, I am strong. Assemble yourselves, and come, all ye
heathen, and gather yourselves together round about: thither cause thy
mighty ones to come down, O Lord. Let the heathen be wakened,
and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat: for there will I sit to judge
all the heathen round about. Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is
ripe: come, get you down; for the press is full, the fats overflow; for
their wickedness is great. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of
decision: for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision.
The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw
<pb n='083'/><anchor id='Pg083'/>
their shining. The Lord also shall roar out of Zion, and utter his
voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake: but
the Lord will be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children
of Israel.</q> Joel 3:9-16.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Mark, this is not what the people say, but what the Lord
says of the very same time when the people are preaching
a good time coming.
</p>

<p>
Another verse referred to, and representing quite a
numerous class of similar ones, is found in Num. 14:21.
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>But as truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory
of the Lord.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
There is no occasion to modify or limit the meaning of
those words; for their utmost significance will be realized.
But when?&mdash;When sin and the curse are wiped away.
After the purifying fires of the day of the Lord have
burned up the last work and relic of rebellion, and the
earth made new in Edenic glory comes again from the
hand of its Maker, as beautiful, yea, more beautiful, if
possible, than at first. It would not be within the limits
of this pamphlet to follow out this subject, but the reader
is referred to the following scriptures: Isa. 65:17-22;
2 Peter 3:13; Revelation 21 and 22, and to published
works.
</p>

<p>
In that state this and all kindred scriptures will meet
a fulfillment that is ample and complete. But for such a
condition of things this side of the coming of Christ
neither the Bible nor the trend of events give any promise
whatever.
</p>

<p>
Judging of the probability of the conversion of the world
from the facts, it would seem to be far from striking. The
following table gives a comparatively accurate showing of
the present religious status of the world:&mdash;
</p>

<pb n='085'/><anchor id='Pg085'/>

<lg>
<l>Jews and Parsees         15,470,000</l>
<l>Greek Catholics          84,136,000</l>
<l>Protestants             114,815,500</l>
<l>Brahminical Hindoos     120,000,000</l>
<l>Mohammedans             122,400,000</l>
<l>Roman Catholics         255,000,000</l>
<l>Pagans                  227,000,000</l>
<l>Buddhists               482,000,000</l>
<l>Unclassified             51,050,000</l>
</lg>

<p>
Concerning the very small proportion of this number
classed in the list of Christians, Bishop Foster has very
aptly said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>There are some who too fondly anticipate a millennium. There
is a lack of information on the progress of Christianity. The facts are
misstated daily in pulpits all over the country. Ministers hesitate to
present the worst side for fear of causing discouragement, and they
create hopes that are never realized. We are not at the dawn of a
millennium. Compared with the work to be done, the past is nothing.
Our children's children for ten generations to come must labor harder
than we are doing, to accomplish the conversion of the world. The
world's population is 1,500,000,000. Of these, Christians number less
than a third; and half of that third belongs to the Roman Catholic
Church. The Protestants number 114,000,000. They are divided into
500 sects. And this number of their strength includes, also, all the
thieves, ex-convicts, the debased, besotted, and the speckled and streaked
in Christendom.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>Northwestern Christian Advocate of Dec. 2, 1885.</hi>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Farther on in the same article the Bishop said:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Before us we have the great problem&mdash;the 1,100,000,000 of pagans
to convert to Christianity. That is the solid rock that looms up in
our path. Look at it; see what work has been done in 1800 years, and
how much is yet to be accomplished. In India, after more than a
hundred years of mission work, we have 600,000 native converts and
2,000,000 Christians among 260,000,000 heathen. Can we remove that
solid boulder that is as old as the hills?... Our Methodist Church we
think the most divine and ineffable. We boast that we are going to conquer
<pb n='086'/><anchor id='Pg086'/>
the world, and come from our palaces and princely farms to subscribe
fifty cents a head for the undertaking! It is a burning disgrace
that excites pity and disgust.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
And as to the prospects for universal peace, the following
recent statement of the armament of Europe does not
indicate that the nations are really contemplating such a
happy consummation:&mdash;
</p>

<lg>
<l>Russia: 1,519,810 men, 181,000 horses, 2,084 cannon</l>
<l>Germany: 835,000 men, 96,000 horses, 2,022 cannon</l>
<l>Austria: 856,980 men, 58,125 horses, 1,600 cannon</l>
<l>England: 478,800 men</l>
<l>France: 1,850,000 men</l>
</lg>

<p>
The remaining states of Europe make up with the above
a total of about 6,000,000 men.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Final Separation.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 40, 41: <q>Then shall two be in the field; the one shall
be taken, and the other left. Two women shall be grinding at the mill;
the one shall be taken, and the other left.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
This language shows the final separation between the
righteous and the wicked. There is no elaborate explanation
as to how the circumstances will meet their fulfillment,
but that is not the essential force of the text. The line will
in some cases be drawn between those who are intimately
related. Some members of the same family will be taken
away by the judgments of God, while others will be left
to receive their coming Lord.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Those Who Watch Will Know The Time.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 42-44: <q>Watch therefore, for ye know not what hour
your Lord doth come. But know this, that if the good man of the
<pb n='087'/><anchor id='Pg087'/>
house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have
watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken up.
Therefore be ye also ready; for in such an hour as ye think not the
Son of man cometh.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The injunction to watchfulness is repeatedly given by
our Saviour in connection with his teaching in reference
to his second advent. These injunctions must apply especially
to those who live in proximity to that event. This
fact is convincing evidence that the Lord is not displeased
with those who anticipate his coming, and study the word
in reference to it. No one watches for that which he does
not expect, and indifference or aversion toward the coming
of Christ is sure evidence of coldness toward Christ
himself. If we love Jesus, we shall love his appearing and
if we love his appearing, we shall be eagerly watching and
waiting for it. But if we knew the hour when he would
come, we should not watch for his coming, nor could we
with eagerness expect his coming if we had no knowledge
of its approach. The course of time has been measured off
in definite periods down to the beginning of the present
generation. The time from the end of the prophetic periods
to the coming of Christ is emphatically the waiting, watching
time. Those who watch, as our Lord commands, will
eventually know the time. No man will make it known, for
it is not revealed to man in the Scriptures. Angels will
not make it known, though they may minister to, and communicate
with, the children of men. Neither will the Son.
But the Father will make it known when he speaks again
from heaven.
</p>

<p>
It is undoubtedly true that the unscriptural and irrational
course pursued by many so-called Adventists in
repeatedly setting a time of their own for the Lord to
come has had the effect to disgust many with the whole
<pb n='088'/><anchor id='Pg088'/>
matter. This is the enemy's work. He will seek thus to
obscure each truth by bringing it into the shadow of reproach.
But it is unwise to be thus misled. Probably
there is no prophecy that better describes the present state
of unbelief in the world in regard to the second advent,
caused partly by fanatical time-movements, than the following:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Son of man, what is that proverb that ye have in the land of
Israel, saying, The days are prolonged, and every vision faileth? Tell
them therefore, Thus saith the Lord God: I will make this proverb to
cease, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel; but say
unto them, The days are at hand, and the effect of every vision. For
there shall be no more any vain vision nor flattering divination within
the house of Israel. For I am the Lord: I will speak, and the word
that I shall speak shall come to pass; it shall be no more prolonged,
for in your days, O rebellious house, will I say the word, and will
perform it, saith the Lord God.</q> Eze. 12:22-25.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
The burden of this prophecy is time; therefore the
word here mentioned that the Lord will speak, will be
the time. Rev. 3:3, is also to the point:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Remember, therefore, how thou hast received and heard, and
hold fast, and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come
on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come
upon thee.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Those who do not watch, will not know the hour.
Those who watch will know the hour.
</p>

<p>
The present watching, waiting position requires much
faith and patience. Says Paul:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Cast not away, therefore, your confidence, which hath great recompense
of reward. For ye have need of patience, that, after ye
have done the will of God [in proclaiming the coming of Christ], ye
might receive the promise. For yet a little while, and he that shall
come will come, and will not tarry. Now the just shall live by faith;
<pb n='089'/><anchor id='Pg089'/>
but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.
But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition, but of them
that believe to the saving of the soul.</q> Heb. 10:35-39.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
Says James: <q>Be patient therefore, brethren, unto
the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth
for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long
patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain.
Be ye also patient; stablish your hearts; for the coming of
the Lord draweth nigh.</q> James 5:7, 8.
</p>

<p>
Jesus says: <q>Because thou hast kept the word of my
patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation,
which shall come upon all the world to try them that
dwell upon the earth.</q> Rev. 3:10.
</p>

<p>
The present position and present duty of God's people
are defined in Rev. 14:12: <q>Here is the patience of the
saints; here are they that keep the commandments of God,
and the faith of Jesus.</q>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Faithful And Wise Servant.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 45-47: <q>Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom
his lord hath made ruler over his household, to give them meat in due
season? Blessed is that servant whom his lord when he cometh shall
find so doing. Verily I say unto you, that he shall make him ruler
over all his goods.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
In this figure, Christ is represented as the Lord of the
household of faith (see Mark 13:35; Heb. 3:6), leaving
his house, and committing the work of caring for his
church to his servants. A blessing is promised those servants
who are found faithfully discharging this duty when
their Lord comes. They are to feed the flock of God,
over whom the Holy Ghost hath made them overseers.
Acts 20:28. They must preach the word. 2 Tim. 4:2.
They should watch for souls as they that must give account.
<pb n='090'/><anchor id='Pg090'/>
Heb. 13:17. They will not only give meat to
the household, but they will give it in due season. They
will preach the <emph>present</emph> truth.
</p>

<p>
And meat in due season when Christ's coming draws
near, will be the gospel of the kingdom. Verse 14. It
will embrace warnings, instructions, and encouragements
pertaining to a message that is designed and adapted to
prepare the world for so solemn an event. Suppose, for
a moment, that when Noah had received his message of
the coming flood to give to the world, he had reasoned
with worldly wisdom that as such a thing never had occurred,
and from all appearances seemed very unlikely to
occur, and hence to preach it would subject him to reproach,
it would be better to avoid any particular allusion
to such an unwelcome subject. His preaching seemed to
excite only ridicule. He could retain his own private
convictions and preach the ordinary principles of righteousness,
saying, <q>Do not so, my brethren.</q> And if the
people were only prepared for the flood, that would be all
that would be necessary. Of such a course we can say
two things. He would thus have proved very unfaithful
to his trust, and the blood of his fellow-men would have
been upon him; and he would have done just as thousands
are doing now. He certainly would not have represented
the faithful and wise servant. So it is now. A solemn
responsibility is placed upon the watchmen:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Son of man, speak to the children of thy people, and say unto
them, When I bring the sword upon a land, if the people of the land
take a man of their coasts, and set him for their watchman: if when
he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet, and
warn the people; then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet,
and taketh not warning; if the sword come, and take him away, his
blood shall be upon his own head. He heard the sound of the
trumpet, and took not warning; his blood shall be upon him. But
<pb n='091'/><anchor id='Pg091'/>
he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul. But if the watchman
see the sword come, and blow not the trumpet, and the people be not
warned; if the sword come, and take any person from among them,
he is taken away in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at the
watchman's hand. So thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman
unto the house of Israel; therefore thou shalt hear the word at
my mouth, and warn them from me.</q> Eze. 33:2-7.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
When Jesus comes, the faithful servants will be found
proclaiming his coming and teaching the necessary preparation.
The Saviour speaks of such as <q>faithful and wise.</q>
</p>

<p>
1. He is faithful. As a faithful watchman, he will
give timely warning when he sees the sword coming.
His work just before the end, is seen in the following
scriptures:&mdash;
</p>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<q>Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy
mountain; let all the inhabitants of the land tremble; for the day of
the Lord cometh, for it is nigh at hand.</q> Joel 2:1.
</p>

<p>
<q>Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and show
my people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their sins.</q>
Isa. 58:1.
</p>

<p>
<q>I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ,
who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom,
Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove,
rebuke, exhort, with all long-suffering and doctrine. For the time
will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their
own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears;
and they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned
into fables. But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the
work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry.</q> 2. Tim. 4:1-5.
</p>

</quote>

<p>
2. He is wise. <q>He that winneth souls is wise.</q> He
must be wise. He will hold forth the truth in its harmony
and beauty, and thus expose error and win men to the
truth. When it becomes his duty to <q>reprove and rebuke,</q>
it will be at a proper time and place, and then
with all <q>long-suffering and doctrine.</q> He will study to
<pb n='092'/><anchor id='Pg092'/>
show himself <q>approved unto God, a workman that needeth
not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.</q>
2 Tim. 2:15.
</p>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>The Evil Servant.</head>

<quote rend='display'>

<p>
<hi rend='smallcaps'>Verses</hi> 48-51: <q>But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart,
My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to smite his fellow-servants,
and to eat and drink with the drunken; the lord of that servant
shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour
that he is not aware of; and shall cut him asunder, and appoint him
his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be weeping and gnashing
of teeth.</q>
</p>

</quote>

<p>
What the evil servant says and does, shows most clearly
the position and work of the faithful and wise servant. The
evil servant says, <q>My lord delayeth his coming,</q> because
the faithful servant is proclaiming the coming of
his lord. The evil servant smites the faithful servant, because
he teaches the soon coming of his Lord. The faithful
servant, true to his commission to preach the <q>gospel
of the kingdom</q> to a fallen church and a scoffing world,
toils on, and for this the evil servant smites him. Not with
the fist, perhaps, but with the tongue of obloquy and reproach.
That there should be professed servants of Christ
engaged in smiting those who are faithfully warning the
world, need not cause surprise in view of the past, but
must cause sorrow in the heart of every lover of truth.
The wicked servant says in heart, and some are saying with
their lips, The Lord is not coming. The world is now just
starting out upon its career of knowledge and enjoyment.
Where is the promise or indication of his coming? Some
say, He may come to-night, he may not come in a million
years, thus neutralizing the truth. Such men will be found
criticising and discounting the Scriptures and subjecting
them to the tests of human philosophy and science. The
<pb n='093'/><anchor id='Pg093'/>
only safety for the people is to look beyond such watchmen.
Let them take the Bible for themselves, and there
discerning the truth, embrace it, and live according to it.
</p>

</div>

</div>

<div>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Conclusion.</head>

<p>
The impression prevails to some extent that he who
teaches that Christ is soon coming is acting the <foreign rend='italic'>rle</foreign> of an
alarmist. If so, we have seen that the great Teacher has
placed himself at the head of the class. No one has
spoken more positively upon this point than he has done.
He said, <q>In my Father's house are many mansions; if it
were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a
place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you,
I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that
where I am, there ye may be also.</q> John 14:2, 3.
There is nothing ambiguous about that language. A child
can understand it. It means that Jesus will come again.
In the remarkable chapter we have here reviewed, the
Saviour takes up the subject specifically, and not only
affirms the fact of his coming, but foretells in explicit
language the events which he would have us recognize as
signs of the near approach of his coming and the end of
the world.
</p>

<p>
But the message of Christ's second coming is not sensational
in its essential character. It is a solemn, practical
truth. It is full of warning and admonition to sinners and
worldly professors, and full of comfort to the faithful followers
of Christ. It is spoken of in the Scriptures as a fact,
established upon the word which never fails. When speaking
<pb n='095'/><anchor id='Pg095'/>
of his second advent, the Saviour said, <q>Heaven and
earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away.</q>
Matt. 24:35. To disbelieve in his coming would be to
doubt one of the two great features of the gospel plan.
What the harvest is to seed-time, Christ's second advent
will be to his first. To doubt that he ever came to earth
would be to subvert the gospel. To disbelieve his second
coming would nullify in the mind his first coming, and
rob the sacrifice of its glorious reward.
</p>

<p>
The apostle Paul speaks of the second advent as <q>that
blessed hope.</q> Titus 2:13. Jesus says: <q>And when
these things [the signs of his coming] begin to come to
pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption
draweth nigh.</q> The prophet Isaiah anticipates
the feelings of God's people who will witness the event,
and expresses them in the following manner: <q>And it
shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have
waited for him, and he will save us: This is the Lord;
we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in
his salvation.</q> Isa. 25:9.
</p>

<p>
At his coming, the dead in Christ will be raised to everlasting
life. The righteous living will be changed to immortality.
The hand of our Saviour will wipe away all
tears; <q>there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor
crying, neither shall there be any more pain; for the former
things are passed away.</q>
</p>

<p>
Why should we not rejoice in such a prospect? Who
would not welcome such a friend? Who would not rejoice
in the prospect of such a consummation?
</p>

<p>
But it is true that the grand event will not be attended
with joy alone. There will be dismay and anguish. For
while one prophet records the exclamations of joyful anticipation,
another has foreseen and recorded the cry of despair.
<pb n='096'/><anchor id='Pg096'/>
<q>And the kings of the earth, and the great men,
and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty
men, and every bondman, and every freeman, hid themselves
in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains; and
said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide us
from the face of Him that sitteth on the throne, and from
the wrath of the Lamb: for the great day of his wrath is
come; and who shall be able to stand?</q> Rev. 6:15-17.
A vast number will thus lament. All who cannot join the
shout of welcome will unite in the wail of despair. There
will be but two classes in that day. And to one of those
classes each one living will belong. To which shall I
belong? Solemn question. To which party will you belong,
reader? No one can <emph>wait</emph> for Christ who is not
prepared for his coming. Only the precious blood of
Jesus that cleanses from sin can prepare us to receive
him and fit us to dwell in his presence. Have you an
interest in his forgiving love? Is your peace made with
God? If so, his coming will have no terror to you, for
he comes to save his waiting people.
</p>

</div>

<pb n='097'/><anchor id='Pg097'/>

<div rend='page-break-before: always'>
<index index='toc'/>
<index index='pdf'/>
<head>Choice Religious Books.</head>

<p>
Any publication in the following list will be sent post-paid to any
address in the United States and Canada. See directions on
the last page.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>PROPHETIC LIGHTS</hi> treats of some of the leading prophecies both of the
Old and New Testaments, showing the exact fulfillment of the predictions of
the Bible concerning Egypt, Tyre, Babylon, Medo-Persia, Greece, and Rome,
also of the prophecies concerning the first advent of Christ, which prove the
inspiration of the Bible, and give assurance that other prophecies which are
noted will as surely and exactly be fulfilled. Nearly all the illustrations of
this book were designed and engraved especially for this work, at great
expense, and are a study in themselves. The book contains nearly 200 large
octavo pages, and is printed on an extra quality of heavy calendared paper.
It is bound in fine English cloth, with beautiful symbolical side stamp in
brown and gold, and has gilt edges. <hi rend='bold'>$1.00</hi>.
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>MARVEL OF NATIONS</hi>, embracing the past, present, and future of the
<hi rend='smallcaps'>United States</hi>, from a historical, political, and religious standpoint; what
great men have predicted; what the Scriptures have foretold. This book
gives a brief but comprehensive historical review of our country, comparing
the past with the present state of religion, education, and science, and calling
special attention to the advancement that is being made by Spiritualism,
Catholicism, and the National Reform movement, which is rapidly bringing
about a union of Church and State in America. These questions are coming
to the front; and he who prizes current thought on living issues should give
them an examination. The book contains 300 pages, and over 40 illustrations;
and has reached its 200th thousand. It needs no other indorsement
than a careful reading.
</p>

<lg>
<l>In plain edges      <hi rend='bold'>$1.00</hi></l>
<l>Gilt edges           <hi rend='bold'>1.25</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>FROM EDEN TO EDEN.</hi>&mdash;This book is a most interesting study of the more
important historic and prophetic portions of the Scriptures. The author
traces the world in its career front the time when <q>God saw everything that
he had made and behold it was very good,</q> on through the period while
<q>the earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof,</q> to the future glorious
time when Christ says to his followers, <q>Come, ye blessed of my Father,
inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world.</q>
<q><hi rend='smallcaps'>From Eden to Eden</hi></q> is printed from new electrotype plates, on heavy
calendared paper made especially for this book, and contains 264 pages. It
is illustrated with numerous full-page engravings, and furnished in two very
attractive styles of binding, at the following prices:&mdash;
</p>

<lg>
<l>In a highly ornamental binding        <hi rend='bold'>$1.50</hi></l>
<l>Plain binding, with marbled edges      <hi rend='bold'>1.00</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>GREAT CONTROVERSY</hi> between Christ and Satan during the Christian Dispensation.
A companion volume to <q>Patriarchs and Prophets.</q> By the
same author. This volume presents the most wonderful and intensely interesting
history that has ever been written of the great conflict between
Christianity and the powers of darkness, as illustrated in the lives of Christian
martyrs and reformers on the one hand, and wicked men and persecuting
powers on the other. Beginning with our Lord's great prophecy given while
viewing Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives, this book outlines the history of
the whole dispensation down to the time when <q>sin and sinners are no more;
God's entire universe is clean: and the great controversy is forever ended.</q>
This remarkable book contains over 700 pp., and 26 illustrations. The work
is handsomely printed and bound.
</p>

<ab>
Bound in five styles, varying in price from      <hi rend='bold'>$4.50 to 2.25</hi>
</ab>

<pb n='098'/><anchor id='Pg098'/>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>PATRIARCHS AND PROPHETS</hi>; or the Great Conflict between Good and
Evil as illustrated in the Lives of Holy Men of Old. By Mrs. E. G. White,
author of <q>Great Controversy,</q> <q>Life of Christ,</q> and numerous other works
on religious subjects. This book treats upon the themes of Bible history&mdash;themes
not in themselves new, but so presented here as to give them a new
significance. Beginning with the rebellion in heaven, the author shows why
sin was permitted, why Satan was not destroyed, and why man was tested;
gives a thrilling description of man's temptation and fall; and rehearses the
plan of redemption devised for his salvation. This volume traces the great
conflict between good and evil from its inception down through the centuries
to the time of David's death, and shows God's wonderful love for mankind by
his dealings with the <q>holy men of old.</q> The book contains over 760
octavo pages. It is printed from clear, new electrotypes on a fine quality of
tinted paper. Its pages are adorned with more than 50 engravings, over 30
of which are full-page, and many were designed and engraved especially for
this book by an artist in Paris, France.
</p>

<lg>
<l>Furnished in four styles of binding, ranging from      <hi rend='bold'>$4.50 to 2.25</hi></l>
<l>In plain binding, with 13 illustrations                <hi rend='bold'>1.75</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>HERE AND HEREAFTER</hi>, or Man's Nature and Destiny, The State of the
Dead, the Reward of the Righteous, and the End of the Wicked. By
U. Smith. A thorough canvass of the great question of a future existence,
and the nature of man in the present life. Every text in the Bible which has
any bearing upon these points, is taken up and carefully explained, thus giving
the most comprehensive view of the subject that has yet been presented.
The work contains 444 pages. In cloth covers      <hi rend='bold'>$1.00</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>CHRISTIAN EDUCATION.</hi>&mdash;The most complete and comprehensive work on
the subject of Christian Education that has ever been published. Starting
from the period of infancy, it points out the most successful way of preparing
the mind of the child for the work of succeeding years. The importance of
proceeding upon Christian principles in the work of education, the nature and
kind of studies which are best for children, and the moulding influences of
home and associates, are dwelt upon in the most practical and explicit way.
Many of the problems that perplex parents are cleared up in this book, and
every one who has to deal with children should procure and study it.
</p>

<ab>
256 pages nicely bound in cloth      <hi rend='bold'>50 cts.</hi>
</ab>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>STEPS TO CHRIST.</hi>&mdash;This little work by Mrs. E. G. White presents in a
simple and attractive manner the steps by which the sinner may be made
complete in Christ. While the book is an excellent guide for inquirers and
young converts, it also contains a wealth of counsel and encouragement for
those who are laboring with the difficulties that beset a growing experience.
157 pages. In neat cloth binding      <hi rend='bold'>75. cts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>HELPS TO BIBLE STUDY.</hi>&mdash;A series of Bible readings, simple and easy,
designed as an aid to the personal study of the Scriptures, and adapted to the
use of individuals or families; also a valuable assistant to Bible workers.
The book contains about forty readings, prepared by practical Bible workers
and teachers, and covering the most important subjects that pertain to the
spiritual welfare of mankind at the present time. 125 pages.
</p>

<lg>
<l>In cloth binding      <hi rend='bold'>50 cts.</hi></l>
<l>In paper covers       <hi rend='bold'>25 cts.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>GOSPEL WORKERS</hi> is a very interesting volume of 480 pages. It outlines the
qualifications that should be possessed by ministers and all others who would
win souls to Christ. It should be in the hands of all Christian workers. This
book can be read and studied by all classes with edification and profit.
</p>

<ab>
In plain substantial binding     <hi rend='bold'>$1.00</hi>
</ab>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>MINISTRATION OF ANGELS</hi>, and the Origin, History, and Destiny of Satan.
A work of great interest upon a subject seldom written upon, yet of great
importance to the Christian. Bound in paper covers      <hi rend='bold'>20 cts.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='099'/><anchor id='Pg099'/>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>FACTS FOR THE TIMES.</hi>&mdash;Containing historical extracts, candid admissions
from authors, ancient and modern, on the live questions of the present hour,
political and religious. A book for these times. Revised to 1893. A compilation
of facts that are astounding, by students of Biblical and historical
research. 340 pages. In fine cloth covers      <hi rend='bold'>75 cts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE SAINTS' INHERITANCE.</hi>&mdash;The reader will here find a very interesting
pamphlet of 82 pages showing that the future kingdom of Christ, with the
family of the redeemed, will be in this earth, renewed, restored, and regenerated,
according to numerous scriptures in the Old and New Testaments.
</p>

<ab>
In paper covers      <hi rend='bold'>10 cts.</hi>
</ab>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE GOSPEL IN CREATION.</hi>&mdash;A nicely illustrated work setting forth clearly
and simply the relation between God's work in creation and redemption.
The signs of power and greatness that mark the handiwork of God in the
visible universe are shown to be but indications of the unfailing strength with
which he works in the lives of those who submit to his will. The confirmation
of the truths of the gospel drawn from the study of the creation will
make this book a valuable one to all who are watching with interest the
attacks that are now made on the authority of the Bible.
</p>

<ab>
In cloth covers      <hi rend='bold'>50 cts.</hi>
</ab>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>SACRED CHRONOLOGY.</hi>&mdash;A new and revised edition of a little work published
by the late Sylvester Bliss about forty years ago, giving the chronology from
creation to the death of the apostle John. Also <q>The Peopling of the Earth;
or, Historical Notes on the Tenth Chapter of Genesis.</q> By A. T. Jones.
A valuable reference book. 298 pp. Cloth covers       <hi rend='bold'>$1.00</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>LIFE OF CHRIST AND HIS APOSTLES.</hi>&mdash;A series of eight pamphlets,
under the general title of <q>Redemption,</q> portraying the first advent of
Christ, his temptation, his miracles, his teachings, his sufferings, and his resurrection,
and the teachings and labors of Peter and Paul. Here are 788
pages of most excellent reading.
</p>

<ab>
In paper covers      <hi rend='bold'>90 cts.</hi>
</ab>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>SATAN'S FIRST LIE</hi>; or Man in Death. A very fascinating poem of 36 pages
by a well-known poet of Michigan. The <q>Lie</q> referred to is the one mentioned
in the third chapter of Genesis; and though, as the Scriptures tell, the
devil is a liar and the father of it, none of his lies have wrought such disastrous
consequences to the race as the one here pointed out. The reader will
hardly fail of being alike interested in both the poetry and theology of this
unique poem. In paper covers      <hi rend='bold'>15 cts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE CHRISTIAN'S SECRET OF A HAPPY LIFE.</hi>&mdash;By Hannah Whitall
Smith. <q>To commend this work would seem almost superfluous; and yet to
young Christians who may not know it, we cannot refrain from saying, Buy
this book, and keep it with your Bible for constant study, until you have
thoroughly mastered, in your experience, the secret of which it tells. It will
transform the dark days of your life, as it has transformed those of thousands
before you into days of heavenly light.</q>&mdash;<hi rend='italic'>The Evangelist (N. Y.).</hi>
</p>

<ab>
In cloth covers      <hi rend='bold'>75 cts.</hi>
</ab>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>HIS GLORIOUS APPEARING.</hi>&mdash;An exposition of Matthew XXIV. This is a
verse-by-verse explanation of the Redeemer's great prophecy concerning the
Gospel Dispensation and his second appearing in glory. 96 pages, with
20 full-page illustrations.
</p>

<lg>
<l>In paper covers, <hi rend='bold'>20 cts.</hi></l>
<l>Board covers, <hi rend='bold'>25 cts.</hi></l>
<l>Cloth covers      <hi rend='bold'>40 cts.</hi></l>
</lg>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE CHARIOTS OF FIRE AND IRON</hi>; or, The Modern Railroad System,
treated in the light of sacred prophecy. A very interesting pamphlet of 168
pages. By D. T. Taylor, the well-known author.
</p>

<ab>
In paper covers      <hi rend='bold'>25 cts.</hi>
</ab>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE REJECTED ORDINANCE.</hi>&mdash;A convincing argument to show that our
Saviour's remarkable act of humility recorded in the thirteenth chapter of
John, should be literally perpetuated among Christians      <hi rend='bold'>10 cts.</hi>
</p>

<pb n='100'/><anchor id='Pg100'/>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>SCRIPTURE REFERENCES.</hi>&mdash;A careful compilation of proof-texts on twenty-five
different subjects of great importance at the present time.      <hi rend='bold'>4 cts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>SPIRITUALISM A SATANIC DELUSION.</hi>&mdash;This is a scathing arraignment
of the system of necromancy known under the name of <q>Modern
Spiritualism.</q>      <hi rend='bold'>4 cts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>IS THE END NEAR?</hi>&mdash;An 8-page tract of great interest, giving numerous
reasons for believing that the Second Coming of Christ is at hand.      <hi rend='bold'>1 ct.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>CAN WE KNOW?</hi>&mdash;A tract of 8 pages which proves most conclusively that the
numerous predictions concerning the signs of the times and the second advent
may be understood.      <hi rend='bold'>1 ct.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE TWO LAWS.</hi>&mdash;A clear and scriptural argument showing the difference between
the Ten Commandments and the ceremonial law or the Hebrews.      <hi rend='bold'>2 cts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE SUFFERINGS OF CHRIST.</hi>&mdash;This tract dwells with great force on the
agonies of our Redeemer in the garden and on the cross, in order to make the
salvation of sinners possible.      <hi rend='bold'>4 cts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>THE SECOND ADVENT</hi>, showing the nature of the Second Coming, and reasons
for believing it near.      <hi rend='bold'>4 cts.</hi>
</p>

<p>
<hi rend='bold'>BIBLE CONVERSION.</hi>&mdash;A tract of 16 pages which sets forth very clearly what
it is to be born again, and that without a change of heart no one can be
saved.      <hi rend='bold'>2 cts.</hi>
</p>

</div>

<div>
<p>
[Transcriber's Note: Obvious printer's errors have been corrected.]
</p>
</div>
</body>
<back rend="page-break-before: right">
  <div rend="page-break-before: right">
    <divGen type="pgfooter" />
  </div>
</back>
</text>
</TEI.2>
